# Let's Talk ETC: Charles Hoskinson & Roman Oliynykov - Treasury Proposal.
Christian Seberino:
hello everybody welcome to another
episode of let's talk epc Carlo can't
make it he's on travel and so I will be
doing the show today we have a great
show we've got two guests we have
Charles Hoskinson and Roman a link off
did i pronounce that correctly Roman 



Roman Oliynykov:
oh
yeah I don't want honey to go yeah




Christian Seberino:
 okay
and we're going to be discussing the
Treasury proposal and related topics so
let's get started why don't you Charles
I know a lot of people know of you but
you want to say something as an
introduction just in case somebody
doesn't hasn't heard of you 



Charles Hoskinson:
I think at
this point if people haven't heard of me
than they did they don't want to hear of
me there is behind the CEO of I ohk we
work on crypto currencies and do a lot
of first principles research we're also
leading the growth of deke team which
has been on previously and the team is
responsible for building the full
scholar client for Syrian classic I ohk
also does a lot of basic research into
the design of crypto currencies
everything from blockchain architecture
to incentives and we work on things for
example like the Treasury we're going to
discuss to me 



Christian Seberino:
okay and Roman why don't
you say a little bit about yourself how
you got into crypto currencies athyrium
classics like then 




Roman Oliynykov:
I joined this topic 1
year ago before it I need very deep
research in cryptography are in
symmetric cryptography metal security
infrastructure security in Ukraine and
one year ago I got the chance to do to
join I ohk and I got here excellent
chance of very interesting chances to
research book chain technologists and
I'm like it was it so my current project
is a fair empathic and graphic Treasury
and it's really interesting and exciting




Christian Seberino:
okay and so you have a cryptography
background strong math background and so
that helps you a security background to
under
stand the ins and outs of these
proposals that correct



Roman Oliynykov:
 yes you're quite
right i defined i have did my ms
background in in crypto in and also mas
i did my PhD is my habilitation
dissertation in tomato cripta and it's
great the health to lift understands
architecture the properties to give some
proofs of the system and so on yes it
did we help same to the carcass 




Christian Seberino:
okay so
welcome both of you and so we're the
topic it is the Treasury proposal so the
cryptocurrency space has evolved since
Satoshi first presented to the world
Bitcoin and we're now people are now
talking about adding privacy which is
really cool bash and V cash and now
we're discussing governance models and
so things have really advanced since
come from a couple years ago so but you
guys are the experts so why don't I let
you guys now introduce the Treasury
proposal better than I can all right
well 



Charles Hoskinson:
I can like I can start with the
principles and I guess Roman can get
into the design so when I first started
working in Syrian classic one of my
goals was try to create a project that
was as balanced as possible so you know
whatever you have a power vacuum or
there's a lot of fragmentation everybody
wants to form a camp and announce that
there's a leader and what I've noticed
was a lot of these projects they tend to
follow Moses tourism development you
know like Moses the guy who leads you to
the promised land comes down with the
tablets and tells you the 10
commandments and says I'll I'll take you
there which can be quite good if you
have a Steve Jobs but if you have a Jim
Jones and you know probably hear how
could I have a good day right so we we
said well you know if we're going to get
involved in this project what we ought
to say as a differentiator for ET SI e
versus etherion more frankly other
projects like Bitcoin which follow a
different development product
standard called i like to call tight
antic driven development is that is that
we need to figure out a way of balancing
power and so it was so super super
important to me that we saw competing
development teams like ECG see Devin
there right now carrying the ecosystem
on their back and they're responsible
for the dev work that's done the last
two hard floors and what allows e.t.c to
survive but then they're counterbalanced
by the existence of the growth and deep
team which will become increasingly more
relevant over time but then it extended
just beyond development that you have to
talk about community management you have
to talk about a flow of information
there needs to be some diversity there
there needs to be people in kind of an
explainer in chief role there needs to
be a lot of checks and balances so one
of the things that's coming up over and
over again is well where is funding
going to come from for the the project
long-term now we could examine a bunch
of different models like one model is to
say well you need to crowd sale as an
example and that's a good model it
actually it's proven to be very
effective with athyrium but the
challenge with that model is that a
single group of actors controls money
and so then the whole project
centralizes around them and if you if
you like them you're back into Moses
driven development if you don't like
them well you're still stuck in that
paradigm another way is the donation
model where you say okay well whoever is
doing work you know put out my can shake
it and hopefully somebody will give me
some money and unfortunately that model
has variable return first or tends to be
a lot of favoritism and you know that
the people who are the most vocal or
best brandon tend to get money not
necessarily the people who are doing the
best work second the funding model tends
to be very inconsistent in general that
maybe some months you have a lot of
money coming in in other months you're
pretty tight and if you think about when
you would need money the most it tends
to be the time when the currency is
going through the hardest time if
there's a sudden price collapse and a
lot of hacks occur and people are
leaving the ecosystem you probably have
to double down and invest and get more
developers and get more marketing and
more things done to get excitement back
up but that's exactly the time of when
your donations are going to be the
smallest because
people are losing confidence in the
project so donation driven development
to me is always seem to be a really
curious way of running an ecosystem that
we anticipate people putting money into
yeah then the other option is to do kind
of like a patronage style development
where you have basically
well-capitalized actors like for example
I ohk come in and say we're going to
fund a development team but then that
kind of suffers from the same flaws the
ico model where that entity now has a
lot of influence and control over the
roadmap in the ecosystem and where to
take it and that entity could at least
be perceived to move the ecosystem in a
way that the stakeholders don't want to
for their own personal benefit so we
asked very early on is there a way that
we can kind of divorce ourselves as a
community from this style of government
and embrace something new so I had
Romans team begin pretty hardcore and
Alice the dash dresser model because to
me the dash model was one of the few
things out there were it seemed at least
you know on the surface you would be
able to to to centralize the pool of
capital and the access to that pool of
capital a little bit so they started a
pretty aggressive project and I guess
roaming can kind of tell you some of the
things he discovered and some of the
things they learned from from studying
desh 



Christian Seberino:
okay Roman you are taken away 



Roman Oliynykov:
yes
thanks so the continuation of what child
already said I said so when you're using
crypto currency we believe and it is the
natural conditions that there are own is
not a majority of participants are on
full notes for math notes in dash and
but besides it's there are another
conditions for example besides honest
majority of participants so we need to
have strong consensus protocol we need
to have a strong creature behind this
consensus protocol and we need to have a
secure implementation to give it
implementation of this protocol are and
all of these conditions are necessary if
we fail in
of them will limit my fail in the whole
category security so here we need to
decide manage this so besides on so
honest majority of participants we need
to have a secure and the traffic
implementation and how many
decentralized have any decent life gives
us much more chances to be as necessary
solution comparing with centralized
development which may happen when one
company or a couple of companies will
give a funds for the currency
development so we looked at dash
experience and we liked it very much
because it's really working model they
did it from the very beginning they
provided really good working model it
provides good funding for this
development we looked for this motivated
deep analysis of it and so we looked to
the ways how can we improve it we are




Charles Hoskinson:
watching for everybody's benefit take us
through kind of hell as a dash proposals
made so let's say Alice wants to get
submit a proposal how would she do that
dash 




Roman Oliynykov:
so are they just create such
proposal they learn some small amount of
money and after that it goes into the
system of math notes into the network of
midi notes it's added to the database of
pharmacy notes of dash and after that
owners of masternodes can see this
proposal i can convert for for it after
that the most popular proposed of
selected refuted to have at least ten
percent of support of the boat of this
project and after that the most popular
proposals are funded the Phi Alpha
funding is made through so-called super
block and so this keeper blocks is super
market





Christian Seberino:
so essentially it's the simplified
explanation would be so it's just voting
you you submit your proposal they have
their system to store it and then people
place their vote and so what could go
wrong how would you answer that question
well there's lots of voting mechanisms
we there was a carbon vote before
regarding the bow fork so there's what
would you say are the issues with that
that you found the biggest one



Roman Oliynykov:
 so
intense it is implemented go to vote in
mechanism where each must note can vote
for each proposal but when we do a
theoretical analysis of the smaller
model a different outs that draw no
vertical module four for a total so the
system practically Laura works but in
theory i just used acquire a little bit
different model it is very important
condition for existing theoretical
models that vote in months the secret
until it ends so when when somebody at
all he he or she does not know as a
result of voting for other participants
until the last one i finished his vote
only other set rules are opened english
it is presented everything in open a fro
from from the very beginning and from
surgical point of view it can be brought




Christian Seberino:
okay so all right so that they it's open
voting and because it's not private that
leads to some concerns and issues that
need to be resolved alright at a mexican



Roman Oliynykov:
Yeah Yeah Yeah right for example from
theoretical it's on the theoretical
point of view i it's it's rather
unlikely to happen in practice but when
votes are divided fifty-fifty and the
last two water gets his chance to vote
he he can select his vote will select
the final decision so up inside share
module as the last vote
in very unlikely cases but it's possible
in very unlikely cases the last load can
have more power comparing to voters who
would earlier it might create incentive
to vote later for example but it's some
theoretical of you to create a system
where no such open questions we proposed
to keep Obama trolls until everyone has
finished his voting 




Christian Seberino:
okay alright so as
if I could just interject this is maybe
semi tan gentle but what is going on
with the dash guys they are just so
impressive they they were doing
anonymous currency you know I I guess
before anybody else and their net and
now they have the basically voting
mechanism and so they amend too bad we
can't get some of those guys to join it
Frankie well 




Charles Hoskinson:
I mean you know I think
what happens up happening in our space
is that people tend to is to focus on
one thing and then say oh is that one
thing is not right everything else is
wrong and so if you if you decompose the
cryptocurrency as an ecosystem into
components you have things like your
block chain in your scripting language
and you can sense this algorithm in your
network stack and you have this notion
of marketing and governance how do you
accrue a community and how do you reach
discussions at a community and how do
you get the community engaged in a fault
if you look at dash as a technology
stack their core innovation has been the
treasury model and you certainly found
some issues with it may have corrected
some of them with 12.1 it's it's an
ongoing debate about what makes a good
pressuring model but what they've done
exceptionally well above and beyond that
that innovation and maybe some privacy
innovations is that they have managed to
construct a very evangelistic and vocal
community and you know if any
cryptocurrency wants to grow and survive
they always have to ask themselves how
do we create an engaged community how do
we get people talking to each other how
do we get people involved in the
direction and the focus and the
evolution of the ecosystem and I think
Dash is a great case study as a
cryptocurrency for an effective
productive community you can say what
you will about the economics of it or
issue they've had with the insta mine or
whatever the heck that was and whether
the Treasury's good or bad everybody has
opinions in that matter what you cannot
deny is that they're utterly committed
to growing their community and really
pushing the community forward in fixing
things so I think that's the corner
vation that they brought into the
discussion that's why I actually had
Roman look into the treasure model was
15 and they did a lot of really good
work and he's actually right that the
work that dash has done is not
theoretically based so you'd like to
work cryptographers at ihk and
mathematicians and computer scientists
and so how we start is we start from
first principles we write a white paper
we define a security model we clearly
define our adversary we have a notion of
what the threat tree looks like we do a
literature review to see what's been
done before we write a white paper we
implement a prototype we see if the
prototype is practical and we go through
peer reviewing iterate now this process
has the advantage of capturing most of
the stuff that's been done before and
really clearly defined where it works
and where it doesn't work now this
advantage of this model is that it's
slow and it's methodical so if your goal
is to innovate quickly and you don't
care too much if there's a potential
mistake or a flaw then you can start
from the other side which you start from
the heuristics and the implementation so
you try to accrue a bunch of best
practices and say oh well you know in
general this is what people up to do and
you have some working hypotheses you
implement it you release it and you see
the market and the community will tell
me where it's wrong this is basically
how Bitcoin was constructed in a
nutshell and dash follow that model with
the Treasury so philosophically speaking
we kind of do things a little
differently but there's a lot of magic
to studying systems that have been
released like this because they kind of
inform your design space and they kind
of give you a sense of what's working
and what's not working for 




Christian Seberino:
you can I
catch a question so you said something
that caught my attention you said that
dash that their Treasury model they
new version i think you called it
version 12 




Charles Hoskinson:
so what was the hard work
that they did do some improvements to
the court protocol so when we did our
analysis it was actually unfortunately
time we did the analysis right when
there was both of community split
occurring was dashing as well as a hard
fork that they had planned and we were
right in the middle of all of it so it
made it a little difficult to interact
with the core developers and also some
of the flaws that we discovered or later
addressed and so it would be nice to do
a new report because i think the report
we have a little out of date but but
overall they've done a very good job
moving forward and it seems like the
core developers really have a legitimate
desire to improve their protocol in
every aspect we're never been a gash
inherited most of it features four big
coins it's a fork of Bitcoin and look at
it asset or a lot of stuff out and
replaced it with some new algorithms
like a replace to consensus algorithm
which I think it's x11 and you know
they've got a bunch of other things but
in conceptually speaking it's very it's
got a lot of Bitcoin DNA in it
especially bubbles and changes its going
to start removing some of that DNA
becoming their penis 




Christian Seberino:
yes the reason that
that that drew my attention is because
they don't necessarily at they don't
have one shot to get it right they could
try something and then make the new
version and if if you find some other
improvements they could do they could
make it come out with another version
version 13 or whatever and so I like
that idea that it's not that you're
stuck with some decision you made a long
time ago there's no way to change it so




Charles Hoskinson:
right now the other the caveat to that
and this is where the I mentioned I was
going to get back to Titanic driven
development with Bitcoin so you know
there's Moses driven development we tend
to follow that when your startup or your
small cryptocurrency but when you get
really big and promise like a Syrian or
like Bitcoin now you've got a lot of
cheddar that's at risk it was bitcoin is
20 billion with a ferryman I think it's
2.5 billion as of this recording a lot
of money and and all of a sudden you
start getting really really really
paranoid that even small changes can
damage your house of cards and
everything comes collapsing down so the
speed and the quality at which you start
making decisions
naturally deteriorate because it's less
about how do we innovate and how do we
compete and it's more about how do we
preserve what we have yeah that's the
first one and every great organization
would it be Microsoft or Google or Apple
they start going down those drones and
you start to your market decline in
their ability to innovate because of it
so dash as it grown I have no doubt it's
going to fall into that same pattern
where yeah right now it's pretty easy I
think when they made the 12.1 hard fork
they were under a hundred million
dollars in market cap and they're very
centralized in the development so you
know it's pretty easy to do that but
when you get to a billion dollars and
you have competing groups and so forth
it's a lot more challenging so I should
bring me back to my point about what
with Amy trying to do for ET c is that
we're not trying to copy dash or copy it
areum rather what we're trying to have
is how how do we what type of core
technology do we need to invest in and
deploy into et Cie to give us the
ability to avoid both Titanic internal
development and motors driven
development where we actually have kind
of a way of managing the ecosystem
without any central actors in charge but
still be agile and able to innovate and
make those decisions now some of this is
technological meaning that you just have
to have good architecture and good ideas
about how these components fit together
and where these components are and how
they need to be updated some of this is
cultural where there needs to be a
anding that no one should be in control
of any one process for example with
community management it can't just be
Carlisle it's got to have Carlos and a
lot of other people and so far we've
done a creating a job as a community
we've got similarly with development
what every TCB does at some point will
be counterbalanced by the growth of jeep
team is vice versa and the community can
conceal fair debate occurring so we're
investing in some of the core technology
to accommodate that and a treasury is a
component but it's not sufficient it
doesn't actually cover the entire space
you also need a way of debating changes
to the protocol and we were working on a
project called ec IP quorum and we have
some time in this interview can
certainly talk about it but the basic
idea is that it's a smart contract that
allows people to propose EC IPS discuss
them vote on them and it will provide a
level data point for whether people have
consented to a change of the protocol or
not another thing that needs to be kind
of flushed out is we need to get a
better ontology of our social contract
better mapping of our social contract
I've seen some great work done like
there's a recent article where a person
was trying to define the difference
between immutability of history and
immutability of process as well yeah and
the basic point of it is that we have to
start defining our principle because
anytime we make a change as a community
every change has to be vetted against
that not I trust Charles or I trust
Elaine or I trust avatar or I trust
flicks and they're pretty honest guys
and I think they have our best interest
at heart rather you know how do we go
about deciding whether it is fits our
value of the community to evolve and
that's the conversation we have to have
now the treasure is really convenient in
this because it actually creates a
discussion already about funding funding
is already connected to governance and
to changes because a lot of the things
that would be funded out of a treasure
model would actually come from desires
to change the protocol so now if we look
to the future let's take six months a
year and all this stuff is done and we
somehow got it into the protocol what we
could imagine a pipeline where a period
people proposed ballot sunny CIP quorum
they get voted on and the most prominent
ones get turned into funding proposals
and those funding proposals gets funded
out of the treasury another line of
debates happen and once they're ratified
and prove you have near universal
consensus to actually implement this and
do a soft or hard work to get it to the
protocol because you've already had a
debate and you had another debate about
funding so you've actually some great
pipeline there and and this was all
decentralized there is no server that
hosts this there's no github repo that
one particular attempt to control
there's no particular community greater
in charge of it it's just it's just all
there 




Christian Seberino:
can I ask you another question
about that that I was thinking of so
you're you're a smart guy so I hope you
don't mind me asking this hard question
and I don't know if the answer is but my
understanding is that the reason we
don't have electronic voting in American
elections is because it's just the
it the boat if they haven't figured out
a way to make it provably secure I think
estonia maybe is one of the few that has
electronic voting but obviously there's
people would be motivated if there was a
to spend a lot of money trying to gain
the American presidential election so in
that sense if let's say et see the the
market cap grew to you know several
billion dollars you would have the same
situation where you have well-funded
actors trying to write hack the voting
mechanism somehow and so it'll take her



Charles Hoskinson:
I'll take a get cracking and I get
roller can take a crack at it too we can
reach as we can see how much of the
death we can break okay so I have
certainly seen a lot of the arguments
for Sando evo ting shouldn't happen and
you know a lot of it stems from saying
well can you ever truly have a secure
environment to do these types of things
in let's say you have a perfect ideal
protocol to do avoiding but then that
protocol has to run on software and it
has to run on hardware so first is your
OS solid and capable you know do you
have a perfectly secure version of
windows or linux or mac OS and a second
are there any back doors and your
hardware that the OS runs on is somebody
could exploit and you know and so so
that's one of the big concerns about
loading that a team from people like i
watch the lecture on a princeton that
you brought that issue up another issue
is well what characteristics have really
want to have do you want to have a
secret ballot not secret ballot and
where what exactly you're voting on can
you quantify evaluate risk now something
with a presidential election it's really
hard to do that so what is the value of
Donald Trump is president versus Hillary
Clinton as president you know for any
given actor if utility function you know
let's imagine it exists and we can do
some form of a calculation and save for
JPMorgan Chase how much money will they
make you Trump as president versus
Hillary's presence I imagine that maybe
the RAND Corporation or something to
build a model like that but we have ET c
or dash you know when you have a
Treasury model now this is a very
different animal because your value risk
go ahead of time you know you're voting
on a ballot and the ballot has a certain
amount of funding and there's a total
amount of money that lives in Treasury
so you already know how much money
maximum can be gained from gaming the
system so your security model is more
about how much money what an adversary
have to spend to manipulate the system
to gain access to this this amount of
funding so when you talk about a
sovereign election and an adversary
might be willing to spend hundreds of
millions or billions of dollars to
manipulate that because there's you know
a massive massive game if you're an
about a Treasury with five or ten
million dollars very sophisticated
extremely mercurial attacks like
backdooring hardware and things like
that they kind of go out the window
furthermore there's also another topic
here which is can you discover fraud so
in all the time of the military and
other entities they build vaults and
boxes in a way that if you tamper with
them if you break into them they might
not be able to prevent the break-in but
they almost certainly tell you that
they've been broken into they've been
built it would do that so similarly you
can construct loading systems or maybe
some fraud could potentially occur but
this fraud would be tampered
discoverable meaning that people would
know that some cheating our monkey
businesses haven't it either be
heuristic we discovered or it's a
property loading system itself you know
another thing is that the blocking space
is very unique and then if you compare
it to regular us voters versus block
chain loaders us voters you don't have a
clear namespace you don't have a clear
identity space you don't have a clear
database to host to hold things in and
you don't also have strong cryptography
built in to push these ballots through
whereas when you're in the watching
space you have actually a secure
immutable database that's programmable
that you can put everything in the code
can't be tampered with the ballots can't
be tampered quiz you have accurate
auditable transparent accounting so all
of those things are known by default and
also you have civil resistance because
if you say you have to have staked the
boat well then is the only way you can
become a voters become a stakeholder as
the systems and those are no cost now
though I agree that there needs to be a
game theoretic analysis of the cost of
attacks but I think it's a simpler
problem to solve a Treasury loading
model than it would be resolved for a
national election or



Christian Seberino:
okay okay I like what you said about
that you said how the stakes aren't as
high and so the attackers wouldn't be so
motivated if we were if they were voting
on something that was worth maybe a few
hundred thousand so that's true if we
are if the if they're voting on
something that's not so critical but
like let's the switch from there was the
debate about whether etc' should stick
with proof of work with something that
critical and well 



Charles Hoskinson:
that's not something
scope of the Treasury so that's another
yea so if it is a distinguish between
what gets funded and what gets
implemented so currently there is no
system in the block chain space to fold
on Forks Bezos who's trying to do this
and I suspect them have their launch in
their sale and their beta and we'll get
a lot of great data out of that
experiment but as it stands right now
there is no way to describe a protocol
in a way that you can vote on changes to
it and reliably have those changes
happen it's an extremely involved
theoretical problem a because you have
to define an ontology for a
cryptocurrency meaning you have to know
what the classes are the relations
between those classes and the constraint
and be able to read it about all the
propositions that would indicate
problems the second you need a formal
enough language that's machine
understandable to fully describe the
entire behavior users of the protocol
and then you need to be able to come up
with some sort of state transition
function that allows you to convert the
protocol into into a new configuration
that's what we're trying to do but the
liquor in the amount of time you have to
spend to do that kind of work is
extraordinary now we're doing some
research into how to do that but I don't
think we're going to get anywhere in a
short period of time now not me the
other hand talking about funding it is
entirely reasonable to say okay well
somebody could propose a provable
perfect steak algorithm example we
release twins claim and make a ballot to
propose implement than that in putting
it into the CIT to propose to chases
protocol now that people might be
willing to put that and that would get
approved and and then we would do the
work and that it would sit there but
then they would still need to be another
debate about whether
the hard work required to to get that
installed and that would not be
necessarily done automatically that
would be done through meatspace be humid
it would go back to boating Roman do you
have anything to add about voting
systems in general and whether they
should be digital or not 




Roman Oliynykov:
just might be
just a few words about technical details
of Treasury so we looked in we we did
initial analysis of our security we
looked of possible attack directors of
course there are a lot of factors at
work but we we implemented such mechanic
such procedures in Treasuries that Craig
and Treasury as hard as cracking Salem
through basic block chain itself so yeah
I take care I need to involve a huge
funding for implementation of this
attack in practice so if you have some
limited system such system in practice
potential and I have might might have
some weak points but amount of funds
needed to implement to successfully
implement an attack a little bit much
much bigger than attacker sprocket so I
unsuccessful implementation of reusable
and model that also even in the event
like the case which attack might be
successful in this situation attacker
allows us much more competitive games we
use take deposits in our proposal we use
limited funding and so on so in this
case intimidation of attack becomes
economically unreachable unusable and we
continue with the filter ethical
research of different different models





Charles Hoskinson:
yeah do we have a threat analysis in in
the proposal that ended up ever end up
getting its way into this oh 





Roman Oliynykov:
yes we did
initial analysis and we continue to work
with our security analysis we described
several types
of a doctor and we provided evidence
that the system is protected from the
site such types of attack for the
general theoretical model probe mobile
security it's very complex questions we
continue to open them moreover such
treasury system is very very complex
which requires enemies from very
different point of views and we will
open it but the model is very complex to
give full circle proof 



Charles Hoskinson:
okay investor
that's why 



Christian Seberino:
i like what you guys said
that and i know some people might be
just quickly looking into this but i
think it bears repeating that the
message is not that now we're going to
vote for everything everything is up in
the air enough for grabs that it's just
the fun percentage of the funding that
comes that right now is all going to
mining that's that's the only thing
we're discussing so that's I think good
Nelly boat and




Charles Hoskinson:
 let's talk about that so
you know when I I when we first did the
proposal and I guess you know it kind of
came out a ham-fisted way we we said hey
let's have a cool open-source discussion
about like monetary policy and Treasury
and so forth so we kind of broadcasted
it there was this huge wave push back
everybody's like oh they're going to put
this in tomorrow and they're trying to
destroy the chain and Dow to point out
like what the hell are you guys talking
about we're just we're just you just
have try to have a conversation here
guys all but but anyway it's important
and something first we are paying
attacks right now everybody in the
Syrian land we pay attached to the
minors so for the good of the chain we
pay out purple aqua coinbase award to
the miners via inflation and one hundred
percent of that goes one group of actors
now there's a a more organic natural
question to ask which is what are the
collection of sum total behaviors
required for a properly functioning
cryptocurrency and miners do not perform
all of these behaviors they just don't
you need to have development you need
have people running full nodes you need
network relay you need marketing you
need legal defense in some cases there's
a whole bunch of things that could
conceivably come up in a crypto
currencies lifespan that are not
compensated and so the question is if
we're paying attacks everybody in the
ecosystem does anybody run a government
where one hundred percent of all the tax
revenue goes to one department let's say
to the apartment of Education and all
the other departments get zero dollars
but are expected to perform their
utility it's madness it's absolute nuts
the problem is that it's impossible
right now for a human being to develop
an algorithm maybe forever that can
possibly account mechanistically for all
of the funding that's required for each
of these departments so the Treasury
model is not saying instead of saying
one hundred percent of the tax we
currently have goes to just one
department let's put it into a general
fund and let's create our rule set that
allows the vast majority of the people
in the ecosystems of stakeholders people
actually own the currency to decide on
how the funds get allocated so the minor
is still get their reward they'll still
get their point based they'll just get
slightly less so we're cutting one
department's budget but then we're
putting it into a general fund to
reallocate now yeah the problem is is
that you can create a great security
model for this but then you still have
to figure out well how do you create
incentives for people to participate are
you paying enough for participation are
you overpaying for participation who
should be involved in deciding that's
kind of the liquid democracy notion of
saying like should everybody be equal or
there should be certain stakeholders
that are domain experts that maybe
should make certain decisions about
certain things and can i delegate my
vote and so forth and also its funding
like a nap 01 knapsack problem where you
know you have a certain amount that's
available per month and if either fits
in the bag or a dozen or can you make it
like a partial problem where you can
have counterbalance for example of
anomalous ask for ten thousand dollars
can we give her a counterproposal saying
which would you be willing to do the
work for 80
to learn our second case 




Christian Seberino:
you just
brought up an interesting point which I
hadn't thought of before but the reason
it's easy to compensate minors is
because their work is quantifiable and
thank you can make an algorithm to pay
them but having been a software
developer for years and years I know
when you propose a contract and you
negotiate the price I know how difficult
it is to quantify you know development
work for example and so somebody could
do one feat add one feature and maybe
they had to work 5-10 times as hard as
somebody else but did another feature
and so it's difficult to compensate
development for example and so that's
the reason we need a Treasury model is
it was easy to quantify all these other
actors then they'd already be getting
compensated quickly 



Charles Hoskinson:
right that's the
basic idea is saying that there's a
difference between dry code and wet
codes the dry stuff can be quantified by
computer's web stuff requires flushing
human brains and judgment to figure out
and also required social credibility you
know what we're doing with growth and
gene is proving to the community you
know how to build in a theory of client
and we're confident you know we do that
brick by brick piece by piece meeting by
needing code commit my code commit and I
would never say okay invest in this team
and trust this team to go take the
roadmap and go somewhere until then it
gone through that road because they have
to show that they're passionate that
they understand that there's no wizard
behind the curtain and so forth so I
think an unspoken component and it's not
something I believe we can literally
quantify with a Treasury model is the
social component of the ecosystem BB how
do we assess who's credible and who's
not credible and really that's just a
matter of merit and time and commitment
you know emily is like egcg efforts
annapolis put in a tremendous amount of
time much of which is probably not been
compensated so they have a very high
degree of credibility and reputation in
the system so it's made for example or
to ask for funding almost certainly they
would get it over an outside team even a
credible company like if a cognate tech
or empty complete came in and said we
build a competing client people say what
we know you're confident but who are you
guys you know what if you guys
come in the community and that's another
component about it is it's kind of like
an implicit reward for being a good
actor in the system having something
like this anything you want to add to
that Roman 




Roman Oliynykov:
so I agree I agree with you
so I here we have complex system of this
complex system requires very
comprehensive analysis and we are on
Danish NHL point of a trend we can't get
me to go with it yeah 




Christian Seberino:
okay great so is
there anything else any of you guys want
to add any message you want to get out
about your Treasury work that we haven't
covered 




Charles Hoskinson:
so a couple of things logistical
thing first off the proposal that we
made in let's try to quantify things in
relation to ec IP 10-17 because it was
just extremely unfair misinformation
about that spread by certain people who
just were not willing to have a
reasonable conversation the point of
ecit 10-17 was about quantifying the
maximum amount of easter that will exist
that was the point so we're setting a
ceiling and we're sending in a mission
rate to build up to that feeling I don't
think anybody's going to fully debate
that and the point of the Treasury model
was saying currently one hundred percent
of those funds are earmarked to one
department in our government let's go
ahead and see if we can take a
percentage of that and move it to a
general fund and then have that general
fund be available for the community to
spend that does not increase inflation
that does not increase the total supply
in any capacity all that does is
reallocate funds from one constituency
to a different constituency and frankly
it's in that constituency best interest
to have same ol reliable funding for the
growth of ecosystem because would you
rather mine a dead coin or would you
rather my dash which is worth 100
million dollars and you've just gotten
to 10 n in the recent trading pattern of
these things so sometimes investing some
of your proceeds into the growth of a
community is a good idea the second
point I am if there's been a much
conflation about this is that this is
some sort of desire to create a Dow to
point
and we should probably have a reasonable
discussion about what happens when
things go wrong so there are three ways
you can implement a Treasury model one
way is implement it via smart contract
and now unless you do a heart fork to
guarantee funding it's really a
pointless model because it's not a
Treasury at the donation pool and what
we go back to the same problems we have
a donation land okay and the second way
is to modify the core protocol to
accommodate a Treasury model model
itself now this is the most efficient
and optimal way of doing things but it
also carries the highest degree of risk
because if you make a mistake it does
require you to tinker with the core
protocol again and these are always
dangerous changes now there is a hybrid
solution where what you can do is you
can construct a smart contract hard fork
to fund that smart contract and then
that smart contract is like a spigot
where it can be turned on and off by a
stakeholder vote people in the system so
it doesn't have any ballot mechanics or
Treasury mechanics in it but it has an
aggregation function and then it's
hooked up to a side chain and that side
chain actually contains the Treasury
itself and funds are sent to that side
chain on a regular interval and the side
chain is world ballots are stored where
all the communication occurs or you know
consensus is reached and so forth and it
gets paid out now if there's a problem
with the side chain what you would do is
you just simply cut the spigot off so
funds would continue to aggregate you
fork the side chain fix all the problems
and then you turn the spigot back on
once the side chain and fixed now that
doesn't interfere with the operation as
the core protocol and also it is only
value at risk would be whatever is nexus
into the side chain for that particular
month so you actually have a situation
where you're limiting your failure so
whether we would propose a smart
contract a protocol enhancement or a
side chain I think the only way to
answer that question is actually
implement all three and show how they
would work and have a detailed technical
discussion a cost-benefit analysis or
risk analysis and so forth we'd never
once made a proposal saying this is
going to be implemented on Tuesday and
everybody's going and put it
yet people somehow represented it this
way and it it was extremely demoralizing
and just frankly incredibly unfair I'm
not in the business of building Dow you
know I it's just unbelievable to me that
people would save it but you know it is
what it is it's a space you have to be
you have to accept it another point is
that our hope is to have a constructive
discussion about the treasury model and
a discussion about things like ecit
quorum and also how we create a balance
of power in Assyrian classic land I
think what we have to understand with a
Syrian classic is that we earned the
right to be born but we have to earn the
right to live so when the Dow hack
occurred and there was a betrayal of the
social contract as a result of the heart
for it gave us the right to create
competing currency and we have endured
as a community in enormous amount of
hardship well you were there during the
early days Christian I thought was
caught on in flac and you know the
Imperium foundations up ninety percent
of their features classic state you know
a lot of people tries to drive the price
down there were threats of 51% attacks
there everybody every week was trying to
do something you killed a network you
had to do hard fork when we play attack
had to be results I mean it was a very
stressful little road and we lived
through all of that and now what's
emerged is a very very resilient
cryptocurrency but yeah 




Christian Seberino:
so on what I
what are you saying is so like for
example the dash there their initial
feature was anonymity and it would be
nice if that one innovation was enough
to take over the world but they had to
add the Treasury model and keep
innovating and with a TV you're saying
we believe immutability is important
it's it's cords crucial it's but that
years unfortunately that one that one
principle is not enough to then win over
the world and take over everything's
going to be great for my 



Charles Hoskinson:
right right
right because because frankly there's
too much competition
into space for us to even hope to
survive in that respect so for example
if you look at Pitt coin with rootstock
and you look at the emergence of the
cerium you know if you love a mutability
and proof of work at some point smart
contracts you're coming to Bitcoin if
not this year the next year but it'll
come and it's super super hard to argue
that Bitcoin has betrayed the principles
and immutability they stood fast amongst
not cox and a million other things and
they're not going anywhere in fact
they're they're so big that they can't
even change small things so I would
argue that if all you are here for is
mutability and proof of work with smart
contracts that is not sufficient for the
cryptocurrency to evolve thrive and grow
into a healthy ecosystem that will be on
par with what if your aim is
accomplished so in past you just like
dash did say okay we got to move from
Dark Queen to something else let's let's
innovate and so the the challenge behind
innovation is to find a way to do
innovation commensurate with the
principles that the community was
founded on and the community I think the
core principle goes beyond immutability
is this desire for lack of centralized
control no one likes saying that
somebody is in charge of the Syrian
classic myself included I think it's
extremely bad from the very beginning I
said I don't want to be the guy who runs
the show and I don't want anybody else
that he's a consequence to show the goal
here is to have no one in charge so our
challenge is how do we find a way to
innovate how do we find a way to
differentiate ourselves from Assyria man
from what's coming down the pipe with
Bitcoin and other competitors but do it
in a way where we're a centralized as
possible and whereas resilient as
possible to people trying to cool off
the platform then we actually have a
very solid value proposition to death
developers and to other people where
we're saying listen no one's going to
come along and rip the rug out from
underneath you you know and if you're if
you're a guy who builds infrastructure
in your health care company or an IOT
company or something you want to put
billions of dollars of infrastructure on
something you're the CEO of that company
you can't go to your CEO and say oh yeah
I want to build on this platform and by
the way they can have a harsh work at
any moment and there's AC 3 guys beside
that and they're kind of weird dudes say
what being like you're the craziest
person life instead you want to say like
if it's going to change there's a
process to change it like the way
it's loads methodical meticulous funding
materializes consensus materializes no
no surprises and actually if we have
good ideas we can be part of that
process in spirit right direction for
mutual benefit both parties at all yeah
platforms have a lot better to me that
sounds like stable infrastructure to to
deploy upon so I think that needs to be
the direction that we as a community a
TTC have to aspire towards we have to we
have to work in that in that flow and it
requires a huge commitment it means that
every time we see centralization of
power we have to kind of break it up
whether the mining centralization or
developer centralization or weise
noticed that all the conversations
happen to be having in one channel for
example with easy ipe 1017 we had
reached good to me to be consensus about
it within the flak and women read it and
other channels but there was no
consensus in China so one of the things
as recent Carlo out to China please hit
what's have wrong and Carlo and other
people go and talk about et IP tips of a
team because you know the quote unquote
power brokers had decided oh this is
great but if that doesn't actually
reflect the world whim of the community
especially the people who were hosting
the network up by a hash power via hill
that's what we need to be constantly
vigilant up is developing an immune
system that stands out centralization
recognizes when conversations have
become siloed and echo chamber II and
our hope is to invest in tools like the
treasury system and things like a CIP
quorum were basically we can hold were
more decentralized conversations




Christian Seberino:
 yeah
and I i think what one of the things you
said it personally to me it seems like
the strongest argument for needing to
keep innovating that other people can
other other crystal coins can come out
with smart contracts that also support
immutability and so all of a sudden
that's not going to be so distinguishing
anymore and this I was I'm kind of a
little armchair game theoretician myself
and I had the thought a couple weeks ago
I brought it up on slack that the what
if the
the etherium decided one day to say you
know what okay fine we made a mistake
with the Dow hard fork and from now on
we're going to admit our mistake and
we're going to believe in the mutability
and that's going to be a core principle
and we learned our lesson that that
could cut the legs up from ET c and so
then all of a sudden that's not a
distinguishing feature a ttc anymore now
that probably won't happen but I think
your point is is well said that other
other currencies other communities could
could have that principle as well




Charles Hoskinson:
 right
well I would be skeptical even if they
did that I mean the underlying cause of
that behaviors because of the
centralized way in which Syrian is
developed its following a motive driven
development pattern you know there's a
small group of actors who have
tremendous influence over the roadmap
the direction and the philosophy of
etherium and as long as you have that
even if those groups at all well
mutability is now cool principal again
they would they might revert back to old
behaviors and it becomes inconvenient
and what do you do to stop them you
can't that's the that's the whole point
so I think skepticism from a game
theoretic aspect would probably keep
people in our in our camp but but anyway
I mean nothing is permanent and this is
just the proposal it's up on our website
and if you could put the link to it in
the show notes that'd be great okay want
everybody to read it send us emails
Roman how big is your team right now
working on the Treasury proposal can you
can you kind of tell us a little bit
about who's working at excuse on the
team 




Roman Oliynykov:
so besides me are in team we have
three page dr specialists they all have
the ground in cryptography one of them
is a professor from Kiev Wiz very deeply
mathematical background and she works
with Jeeps erotica crypt analysis with
deep analysis of voting system and
besides that we have a dispute asshole
so we're coho
extremely good in gaining new
information collecting all information
in the analysis of huge amounts of data
and so on we have rather big team and
this big team has unique specialists
from different eras from the theoretical
crypto going through a practical
implementation deep source code analysis
with simulation properties and
collecting and analysis information
which is publicly available 




Charles Hoskinson:
right Oh
Christian if you could just edit that
last dialogue a little bit




Christian Seberino:
 okay wait is
there something want me to add or remove
from that it was




Charles Hoskinson:
 just just just the
clarification where where I asked about
the team is that whole thing 



Christian Seberino:
okay all
right 



Charles Hoskinson:
okay then just just to add to the
to the team we're going to be adding to
it so we're in discussions with people
from Lancaster we also might bring
somebody from Oxford who's got a very
strong game theory background to start
looking at the protocol and remember
needing some specific people for RT i
SPECT as well and that's the starting
point but actually we're looking for
more people so if anybody wants to work
on the Treasury proposal Widow analyzing
and adding to it modifying it debating
whether it's necessary not we highly
highly highly encourage you reach out to
Roman and then we can start a
conversation where we're actually
looking to hire and we're also looking
for a healthy debate so what I mean by
healthy debate is that you actually come
and say okay well if you want to
accomplish this goal here are the
problems you're going to have and here's
your issues and here's why I think the
goal is not viable or is viable that's a
today if you're saying treasure models
worthless you guys suck you're trying to
take over the ecosystem just don't some
Union now I don't have time for that so
anybody who wants to contribute and want
to have a discussion about the
usefulness and necessity or other other
characteristics of such a system for
this or ecid quorum please do reach out
to to Roman and we'll we'll try to make
a conform of accommodation my goal is to
build a team probably around that's
about 10 people to 15 people total on
the treasury
and the output of this process is going
to be on reference treasury model so it
will have some parameterization and we
can we're going to certainly
parameterize it as a nice eip for a
cerium classic but it can be used in
other cryptocurrencies as well so that's
kind of the benefit ion which case you
know where the business is building
crypto currencies and in our opinion one
of the big pillars of sustainability is
long term is going to be a Treasury
model it helps you in a lot of different
ways as we've discussed so we're going
to put this up on the shelves and pull
it off whenever we build one of them so
you know and we love the community's
help to get us to that point where is it
analyzed and its measured it implemented
and balance to a point where we have a
high degree of assurance but it's a good
idea you know well probably as I said to
a smart contract implementation of it
just see how it works we'll also do a
proposal for how it would look if we
modify the protocol and what's really
interesting to me is the possibility of
doing it as a side chain as an
independent system and here's actually
the interesting reason why because it's
at the side chain you potentially could
do use a Treasury the same Treasury for
more than one cryptocurrency that's kind
of like a trippy mind thing right so
let's say dash besides outsource the
Treasury model they could build a side
chain to the Treasury layer and the same
group of people could make those
decisions on dash funding as they could
for ETP funding and you can actually
have the submergence of kind of like a
decentralized meta government in in the
space so that's cut out there and it
seemed to think about it but it is
pretty cool idea that you could have
governance as a service and editions
consensus as a service we typically seen
ya types of people so that's over all
the schools in the project you know
thanks for having us on it to appreciate
it you having a question for me




Christian Seberino:
 no I
just have one thought to just encourage
both of you that I'm very good at saying
stupid things so if it's a stupid just
tell me so but uh so my my understanding
was that one of the reasons America so
successful was because the founding
fathers wanted to basically have an
offense decentralized system
right dad competing branches of
government and so I see blockchain at
block changes kind of that the core
principle of the core features that
nobody's in control again it's
decentralized and so that to me that
really seems to improve the world when
you've got these systems that people can
rely on they trust there's there's
freedom and so if you are improving this
governance treasury model for et Cie
maybe this will lead to improved
democracy overall and that's a that's
what grand thought for you guys you guys
might be doing something with more
impact than you might think I appreciate
your passion for decentralization and
not wanting to take you to a pinch of




Charles Hoskinson:
Ukrainian politics at all 



Christian Seberino:
yes okay 



Charles Hoskinson:
no
comment 




Christian Seberino:
no I have high hopes for what
you guys are doing 




Charles Hoskinson:
right it's it's a fun
pursuit you know it's kind of funny
because a lot of people in this space
say that OBLA chains are going to
replace governments and replace money
and all these other things and we look
to where we handle governance and with
Bitcoin we can't even decide on a
parameter change you know we can't
decide on implementing something as
simple and innocent as segregated
witness so when you have the inability
to make small changes to a system I
don't think these systems are ready to
be used in a context of a government so
actually that's that's a super exciting
prospect of where we can take appear in
classic is to demonstrate that you can
actually lead a cryptocurrency in a
decentralized way you can actually have
a balance of power you don't have to
elect to Moses and if that works I think
you are right and then it's kind of a
micro experiment for a broader scale
system and then you could say maybe in
the future that can be used for a system
of political governance and actually
making decisions about how the
government ought to work and supports
but I think we have a long way to go and
you know we haven't even gotten a
successful Treasury proposal implemented
in a theory flat so that doesn't happen
then maybe maybe the whole encodes out
the window



Christian Seberino:
yeah well thanks again guys been a great
discussion and appreciate you guys
coming up Rob ND
[Music]
you
