# Let's Talk ETC: Miners Featuring Cory Tselikis & Etherninja.
**Carlo Vicari:**
you're listening to episode 4 of let's
talk ET c i'm your host karlovy along
with my co-host dr. christian Severino i
want to thank the ET c devs investors
miners users and other community members
for another great week for those of you
watching on youtube the ET c newsletter
will be in the description below there's
a lot of great info in this week's
newsletter i kept the monetary policy
proposal by snap roll I kept it in there
since it's such a hot topic still being
discussed by so many different community
members we also have some info about the
network issues that were experienced
last Wednesday we'll get into that more
a little bit later there's also a et Cie
event coming up December 13th in London
this one's organized by dr. avatar Sarah
so more info on that and will be in the
newsletter as well there's also going to
be an interview from Chandler go in
there and another article from dr.
submarine oh this one's about smart
contracts now on to the main focus of
the show tonight it's about the et Cie
mining community and thankfully we have
two top top notch guests with us tonight
they are extremely knowledgeable miners
really helpful in community about pretty
much everything not just mining and just
all around great guys so I'd like to
introduce special guest Randall goes
back ether ninja and another special
guest Cory and he goes by Cory vm cs1 on
on slack and multiple other
communication channels how are you guys
thanks for joining us tonight


**Randall:**
 doing good
thank

**Cory:**
 you doing great thanks guys for
the opportunity


**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah absolutely i'm
really psyched to have you guys on here
and uh so i just want to you know what
we've been doing is kind of getting some
community members on here and getting
letting the community to know their
backgrounds and what's going on and just
kind of introducing different you know
really awesome community members to
other people that are listening out
there so um I guess we'll start with you
Cory since your first uh what's your
background and kind of how'd you get
into blockchain or what's your
background in general


**Cory:**
 so my background
has always been in IIT IT consulting and
I've always kind of been into you know
dabbling into you know computers
and about a few years ago I started
learning about Bitcoin and how you know
how it works and you know started
playing around with some simple mining
things doing a lot of reading and
research and I was just intrigued by the
whole the whole thing it was just very
different from you know the regular Fiat
monetary system and how it worked and
just blew my mind so then probably in
about 2015 I started a project of my own
was called influx it was a excellent x11
algorithm kind of was never really meant
to go public with it but it got a ton of
community support and it's actually
still out there you know it's still out
there on bit tricks actually it's infx
so so that really got me into the block
chain and actually forced me to learn
quite a bit about it in start mining you
know x 11 and then from there I kind of
fell into etherium and I was you know I
love the whole concept about it until it
started to go south 

**Carlo Vicari:**
right right

**Cory:**
 and then
you know honestly you know the ET and
then EGC came about and i have to say it
is the coolest most helpful community
I've ever interacted with so I mean
there's tons of slack channels and all
sorts of things out there that have
thousands of users but it's just dead
you know in it's amazing that et Cie has
such a great community surrounding it
and everybody's helpful in every way you
know I interact a lot with ether ninja
he's a great guy he's actually taught me
a lot to about my knee running a pool


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah absolutely I see uh you know
it's it's both you guys there's some
others but people are guys you two guys
like the pillars in there you know


**Cory:**
 yeah
yeah we're just we're just we're just
missing a lot of the miners not sure
where I think it's important for us to
really capture the miners and find a way
to draw them into our great community


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah definitely I think with the
etherium moving to POS we should be
capturing quite a bit you know moving
forward um so but that's a good point
and you know that's why I like to you
know there's there certain
staples that make up an entire community
it's kind of what I touch upon in like
the beginning of of the introduction of
the show you know the real core is like
devs investors miners users you know if
all of those things together kind of
encompass like what the whole community
is you know 

**Cory:**
yeah

**Carlo Vicari:**
 um so uh ether ninja or
Randall why don't you tell us a little
bit about you know tell the people
listening out there about your
background and kind of how you got the
blockchain as well 



**Randall:**
sure I was introduced
to Bitcoin I don't know his mid-2013
from a friend at work and immediately
fell in love with crypto at that point I
was hooked I've been in IT for 20 years
now primarily as a linux engineer and
the complexity really got me going so I
i worked with bitcoin for quite a while
started mining by that time a skeeze
were pretty prevalent throughout the
environment but you could still mine
script so I was mining sha-256 and I was
also doing some script on some 79 50s
for a while and basically I watched
Bitcoin go from eighty dollars to what
was 1100 something he asked that 

**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah

**Randall:**
 it
was exhilarating after you after you
feel that it's kind of hard to let go
once you see those kind of moves in the
crypto market but after that I kind of
had a falling out after the price kind
of you know hit bottom and road sideways
for quite a while I decided to kind of
drop drop out of it bought some things
on overstock read an article about
Assyrians presale and dumped the rest of
it into that so 

**Carlo Vicari:**
delay okay

**Randall:**
 yeah yeah I'm
a pre-sale i bought some freecell and as
as we got closer to launch date Vitalik
came out with some interesting games to
play
a lot of them were you know how to take
down the network well I'm not an
academic so the idea of me being able to
break something I thought was cool so I
got heavily involved with that also with
mining the Olympic network and trying to
take the network down and there was also
bounties and I think I won three or four
of them on the boundary reward at that
time I didn't think it was a whole lot
of money but you know lo and behold a
year later it's worth quite a bit of
money but I I then told it by then I did
have some concerns with the way and I
don't know if i should say here the way
the foundation was handling things you
know I know the answer

**Carlo Vicari:**
 uh this is uh
this is open show since they would say
which I stood

**Randall:**
 there was some
distributions that went on that I wasn't
completely comfortable with so I had it
yet another falling out with athyrium at
that time then I you know of course I
crawled back because I loved attack and
i know i got involved with you know
writing smart contracts you know the
coin things then the dow came about then
that debacle you know it collapsed so
that was strike two and then at first i
was actually you know i shouldn't say
this but i was an agreement with the
hard fork and after a while I really
thought about it and thought what if the
ramifications are of this fork and how
it totally betrays blockchain principles
and what blockchain is really about so
at that point I was introduced to a few
people that were you know working with
you know opposing this court and I had a
couple pools that weren't very
successful at the time and I said hey
you know I could set up cool for you and
when the fork finally happened I happen
to be one of the pools that
that you know stayed at least for a
little while it was very exhilarating
because it was under attack quite often
there was many times i was up i kid you
not I was up for 24-48 hours straight
the only know it was bad I mean it was
non-stop d das after d das and that went
on for quite a while actually and then
it kind of led up as other pools started
to get introduced into the ecosystem so
but yeah I'm an avid minor I know how to
mine I've been doing it for a long time
but I'm also kind of a
jack-of-all-trades I'm not a developer
either but I do know a little bit about
everything but not a whole lot about one
thing that 


**Carlo Vicari:**
that's cool I know it's a
cool story about you know that the
constant attacks you were first getting
in the beginning of the et Cie that's
for ya

**Randall:**
 I'm not a hundred percent sure of
the sources there was no other pools at
that time because sometimes you know in
the industry I guess you want to say
pools like to tag each other you know
but at this time i I don't I don't think
the source of the attacks were coming
from there so I I don't know who would
be incentivized to do that but they were
quite sustained for their substantial
amount of time 


**Carlo Vicari:**
right I guess cuz you
were the only one you were getting like
the full brunt of the attacks

**Randall:**
 got to
Craig

**Carlo Vicari:**
 you were gonna say something
Christian sorry

**Christian Seberino:**
 no I was just that was
just uh that was an interesting story
I'd like the that yell I hear more about
that so you were attacked for being one
of the early miners and I noticed a
pattern with you which is it seems like
you're smart about getting into
technologies in their infancy when the
price is low and then you stick with it
when the price goes high so maybe you
can start a investment fund or something
free to be funny

**Randall:**
 oh no I'm not always
right I've been wrong before believe me
I I did at one time I was very heavily
involved with the world coin community
it's one of the
think they're still on the first page of
coin market cap but they had they had a
major scam and you know I don't blame it
on the community I think it might have
been some people from outside but I I
think it's kind of hard for a crypto to
really get ever passed a major scam and
I you know Bitcoin did fine with Mount
GOx but I I don't think Assyrians going
to be in the same boat with the Dow so
that's just my viewpoint on it I agree



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah I definitely think there's a
major difference between scam and
something that's poorly executed so I
think it's a I think it's also important
to draw the distinction uh you know wait
uh Cory I guess uh how did how did you
end up getting interested in atc I guess
specifically since I you said he gave us
like your block chain and your crypto
background but 

**Cory:**
so what so ATC came about
you know I was minding etherium and the
whole hard for came up and honestly I
think it started from the Dow when the
Dow was launched I remember seeing
abalone acts and thinking hmm you know
looks at it looks appealing should i
maybe you know try and do something and
I'm like my gut told me Colonel some
just doesn't sit right about this and I
actually did not I did not I did not
invest in it because I don't know for
whatever reason it just seemed it came
out of nowhere kind of and just seemed
like it was just in your face and you
know I just had a bed you know bad
intuition about it


**Christian Seberino:**
 you remember what was
there was a I remember a couple days
where unread it was like every headline
or every other headline was about the
Dow 


**Cory:**
yeah I mean you know when a cake you
know in my opinion I don't like bashing
anybody but you know I think etherium
only really truly exists because of
marketing I don't think it really you
know I don't think you know the 3m
classic community exists because there's
a community that really truly supports
and believes in you know after the HEPA
with etherium and you know I lost some
money but now it's not a ton in you know
all the oppose the fork and only a
couple pools were you know advertising
to vote
which you know it seemed like it was
such a small amount of pools that were
you know advertising you know this whole
thing um it kind of blew my mind and I
was like you know I didn't like the way
it was going so as soon as it three in
classic came on i'm like wow cool i'm
jumping in and you know had I wish I had
been you know you know more involved
with the pool type deal but you know i
i've always been a miner so i started
mining i have a small farm I probably
got about four rigs full rigs right now
mining etherion classic uh and you know


****Christian Seberino:**
Jacob oak or did you feel like me and
Randall did but I know Randall said when
he got disillusioned previously he was
he stuck with the technology because he
thought it was cool for other reasons
and that's that's kind of how I felt I
was like oh the this heart the Dow hard
fork is a bummer but the theory was so
cool and 


**Cory:**
yeah but absolutely I mean for
me it's you know a lot of people see
Bitcoin or a theory amor tokens they see
that is valuable them because a lot of
them only traded in the market place but
really all I think a lot of people miss
what it's really about and it's not
really about the token or the coin or
it's a it's about it's about what it can
do and the projects that you can build
off of it yeah and that's where the
value comes in and I think you know the
daffs and you know all the smart
contracts and being able to you know
fully integrate from the network I'm
happy to mine that you know i'm happy to
push that along the chain and be a minor
and be part of that you know yeah and
that's one of the reasons why I built
the pool too because you know at the
time when a dream classic kind of went
there wasn't too many nodes out there so
I figured I'd host a note here hosting
those day or kind of help the network
out stabilize it then I decided to put a
little up and in hash away at it and
yeah I too went through quite a bit of
attacks you know it's you know some
small to large and you know I recently
put up a couple nodes in the mainland
China so we could try and attract more
et Cie users and within a couple days I
put them up I've probably already been
attacked hundreds of times


**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah yeah
it's a link


**Cory:**
 it's a very different world
out there and there's really only like
one pool aside from solo minors that are
that are really pushing the limit there
oh 

**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah

**Cory:**
 hopefully hopefully there's
going to be some more adoption I'm fat
you know Carlo introduced me to a couple
people on on ET China the talking with
them they're looking forward to
potentially pushing you know cerium out
there more and I think it's just going
to allow us to get a broader spectrum
and you know I'm really there to help
the community for et Cie and that's what
I love about it



**Christian Seberino:**
 now i'm curious i have a
question why besides being magnanimous
why would why would you two want to help
think grow the mining community because
doesn't that mean less money more
competition for you guys


**Cory:**
 you know that's
a tough question I mean I could you know
we're facing it right now obviously
ether ninja himself is you know we've
had pools running for a while he's
obviously had them for a long time and
you know miners are slowly leaving for
whatever reason or they come back it's
very hard to keep them as it is you know
and keep track of where they're going
but I think it's because we don't
there's not enough


**Christian Seberino:**
 oh so you're on Vegas


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah what do you think Randall's sorry

**Randall:**
yeah my biggest concern is well really
two concerns is the hash rate
distribution and the actual hashrate
size right now I think we're sitting
about 400 Giga hash you can currently
rent you know 130 Giga hash on a few
cloud miners they could almost make up
half of the the entire hash rate of the
network so you know I'm not only a minor
and a pool operator but i'm also an
investor and I do have concerns about
the security of the network and you know
whether it could be compromised with a
51-percent attack and there's some other
other type of attacks that can be
performed that that I've
that I've mentioned before with
substantial hashrate so you know i would
definitely feel more comfortable if we
were over at era hash because it would
be much more difficult to rent something
to torque is a some sort of attack


**Carlo Vicari:**
 so
it's so that's not Tara happy no sorry
glad dressed 


**Christian Seberino:**
up just in case anybody
doesn't know could back me up on this
but people might think that because
bitcoin has a huge price right now
though i should my bitcoin but it's much
harder right to find the proof of work
information on bitcoin and so just
because a crypto coin has a smaller
price if if it's much easier to my
relative to the right you could still
make more money with that with the
smaller price would you agree with that


**Cory:**
oh yeah I agree I mean it's all relative
I mean tell you how you do it i mean how
much is your investment gonna be to
actually mine bitcoin to actually get
something out of it what are you going
to have to pay if you're a minor to get
it you know you need Tara hashes and
beyond you know when it comes to 3m
classic you know with you know for full
rigs I mean you know right now three was
down a little bit but with for full rigs
I could easily you know be pulling same
amount if not more of what I was getting
out of it hmm 

**Christian Seberino:**
now have you both of you
did Bitcoin mining did both of you get
the specialized integrated circuits to
do shaa hashing really fast and get
into all that


**Cory:**
 yeah I actually have a few
aunt miner saw sitting in my basement
collecting dust


**Christian Seberino:**
 okay

**Carlo Vicari:**
 is that because its
market not wear things like dust that's


**Cory:**
because it's just it was more more to
learn than anything because obviously
you know you can have a hundred of them
in you're not even gonna get a Bitcoin
you know I mean like I said you know you
need a substantial investment uh you
know with the latest you know aunt minor
technology an entire farm on the side of
a mountain to
to determine you know the kind of money
that those guys are doing is


**Carlo Vicari:**
 so you have
the ant miners downstairs in the
basement with the old n64 I guess right


**Cory:**
yeah I'm old sega and nintendo 64 you
name it


**Christian Seberino:**
 now we I the the algorithm to
mine athyrium that that has or whoever
you want to pronounce it it favors GPU
mining versus the custom integrated
circuits that the chips like Bitcoin
does now do you think I've heard I
thought that was pretty impressive to do
that do you think has that helped you
guys


**Cory:**
 oh yeah absolutely i love i love it
because you know i can invest in a
mining rig with GPUs and you know in i
could split my farm up into four
separate you know algorithms of mine at
the same time it not only be stuck
mining bitcoin with a single algorithm
so it kind of helps me diversify you
know my mining in common you know
investments and in moving forward i mean
i use both nvidia i've been testing with
athyrium and i'm also been using you
know and the AMD chip sets the for 80s
for 70s 


**Christian Seberino:**
okay so would you say that
there's less danger with athyrium and if
they're in classic of some somebody
swooping in getting a lot of investor
money and making some awesome custom
chip that's just going to blow away all
the other miners



**Cory:**
 I mean you know
anything's possible with the right
amount of money but I think it's so far
out from that possibly happening I don't
see it anytime in the future if any I
mean the theorem is a great algorithm
and the way it's designed to work in the
GPUs it's it's it's it would be it would
probably kill an ASIC




**Christian Seberino:**
 yeah and the
reason is because it needs so much
memory right mind correct and so at
discourage it it minimizes the
importance of a fast cpu and so that in
that sense it helps people 



**Carlo Vicari:**
randall are
eat their ninja what do you think about
that do you see anything on a horizon
kind of battling it out with the GPUs
technology 


**Randall:**
well was one of the
benefits of the difficulty bomb was it
allows avoidance and not only is memory
expensive but also no one's willing to
fab a chip for a million dollars to for
something that's only going to be around
for a year and then go proof of stake so
atc might have something to deal with in
the future in regards to specialized
chips I don't know but it is a
possibility


**Carlo Vicari:**
 oh I see what you're saying
so the the technology cycle or the
people that rutten that may have been
interested in a souped-up you know
something to compete against the GPU
just didn't bother because of the bomb
is that right 


**Randall:**
that is correct 

**Carlo Vicari:**
okay I see
oh and also I wanted to touch on earlier
I wanted to ask about that Tara hash
mark that you were talking about is that
kind of like a psychological barrier or
an actual more of like a technical
barrier as far as well with it you know
a Tara hash of hashing power I guess
it's just difficult to get all of that
together as far as the world is
concerned to be able to 51-percent
attack if you're over Terra hash is 




**Randall:**
that
right that's correct it's much harder to
garner up that much hashing power to
orchestrate some sort of attack 


**Carlo Vicari:**
I see


what you're saying 


**Christian Seberino:**
anymore go ahead and
finish Randall it at it

**Randall:**
 yeah just the
more hash you have the more secure your
network is overall and that's to deal
with there's a you know in my opinion
two things that bring in price security
the network and the validity of its
security secured over time so bitcoins
been around for how many years seven
years and it's proven itself to be
secure athyrium still new it's still in
its infancy so r et Cie its price isn't
going to quite reflect that until enough
time is vetted out all the issues and
also the hashing power that you know
that it would take millions of dollars
in order to orchestrate some sort of you
know
offender or something that the likes 


**Christian Seberino:**
ok
the question that I had for both of you
was I I know very little about the high
frequency trading that goes on on Wall
Street but I do know that so they have
these sophisticated algorithms that try
to beat the stock market and I know that
they obsess about shaving millisecond
soft the communication to the soccer
game so they can buy their buy and sell
your milliseconds faster I was wondering
in addition to having good GPUs how
importantly the communication is for the
network



**Cory:**
 I think latency is very
important um you know when one mining
you know depending on regional locations
of your pool it helps I've seen you know
kind of a benefit to having a network in
the uptime you know the longer miners
can stay up and in my opinion to the
better it is to you know not have a you
know a hiccup in the network 


****Christian Seberino:**
I guess
what i was getting at was like
hypothetically let's say i had a really
awesome farm of GPUs and so I'm beating
everybody and I'm finding the proof of
work information really fast but then my
network is slow so it takes me while to
get them out there and distribute my my
proof of work and so then I'm at a
disadvantage not because I don't have a
lot of GPUs but because my communication
is slow 



**Cory:**
yeah i mean that's that's
definitely offices 


**Carlo Vicari:**
uh speaking of
hiccups since now work i like about a
half hour into the show i wanted to
bring up some of the network issues that
you know we experienced last week and
thankfully you know we didn't have a
situation like a theory em where they
had a gift parity fork so we didn't have
that issue but we had a couple of what
was it we had a few hours of like an
unusual amount of orphans going on all
right 

**Cory:**
yeah 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah that was uh i believe
that was on wednesday or thursday i
think that was wednesday like afternoon
yeah when's wednesday afternoon so i
don't know if ninja do you want i know
you were talking a lot about that
kind of filling everybody in on what's
going on 


**Randall:**
yeah I actually it was Corey's
it figured out the resolution I don't
know if anybody ever figured out the
root cause but it was simply an upgrade
to the latest parody release 1 dot Ford
up for that seemed to resolve it I don't
know if there was something in the code
that allowed a certain poll to mine
blocks that weren't by other pool and
then they basically aur batao 


**Christian Seberino:**
I'm sorry
can you uh Randall can you repeat that
the last half minute and also can you
define what orphans are for people that
don't know 


**Randall:**
yeah sure a person orphans
are basically blocks that are mind that
are there that are reorganized over
basically the chain you know is
constantly going through many Forks well
not constantly hopefully it's a healthy
networking involved but there's their
sports going on all the time and one
let's say one block has a time stamp
that is mined at a higher level than
another block that blocked the lower
block would be accepted not the higher
clock so the chain may reorganize and
that higher block would simply be
orphaned out orphans can also be if you
have a poorly running client or a mining
client that's under some sort of DDoS
attack and it's not able to import the
blocks in a decent amount of time in
order to find a resolution for it so in
this case basically what was happening
is a pool I don't even think they were
aware happened to upgrade to parody 14
dot 4 and started mining blocks
unfortunately that pool held a
substantial amount of the network hash
ring so has pushed a lot of these blocks
out there that other pools were trying
to mind that could not basically build
on to the next block it wasn't accepted
all i know is that had time to do
with the transactions that were in the
blocks and there was something in those
transactions that the older versions is
a client I was not accept and allowed to
build onto the chain 

**Carlo Vicari:**
I see oh

**Christian Seberino:**
 so they
were they were working on they were
basically wasting their time and they
didn't know it okay 


**Randall:**
yeah basically there
was some other strange behavior to I
think Cory's cool experienced it where
if he restarted his client and it
started from block one yeah and I
typically yeah maybe you can explain
that a little further Tori 



**Cory:**
yeah what it
was very it was very odd you started
seeing some errors in uh in the parity
nodes and and some interesting kind of
weird glitches came through and I was
like interesting well let me restart the
where we start you know some of the
nodes and as soon as I restarted it
without paying attention went to my pool
and as you know you know Redis records
everything it started back from block
one and started you know going on and on
and on the mining you know 230 I mean we
mined 230 blocks in a matter of minutes
and then they all orphaned out and you
know so it was the whole orphan thing to
happen and then in turn i immediately
went and you know pulled a new parody
release and started and started updating
11 of the nodes and did a kind of did a
quick test on it and i saw that the
chain you know came up and as that was
going i started to upgrade all the other
nodes you know in you know change the
load balancers and moving around and in
you know that we kind of got back on
track it was kind of a lot of cleanup
but um you know nothing major
substantial i think really really
happened for me



**Christian Seberino:**
 okay now if I understand
you correctly it was the new version of
the code that caused this that people
running different versions that didn't
agree with each other so is it just that
there wasn't enough testing or nobody
thought to check for decision 



**Randall:**
I I agree
completely i think any new client
releases that we're going to have to
that amount and instead of you know once
something comes out oh look
no we need to make sure that you know
somehow the community basically
validates and says you know this is what
we need to employ at least for the large
pool 



**Cory:**
yeah i agree maybe maybe we just
need a best kind of a best practice for
for the large pools you know miners are
going to mind are going to see an update
they're going to change their client
upgrade all the time but if we all can
kind of you know try and stay as
consistent as possible it'll be helpful




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I am also with you guys since I
brought it up I was wondering if you
guys could maybe expand upon the fork
that athyrium experienced between parity
and death that happened also thankfully
we didn't have to go through that but
just for anyone listening out there that
was kind of interested in what happened
with all that if you guys could kind of
expand upon it 


**Randall:**
you know I I haven't been
watching that too closely I all I know
is that you know parody ended up being
the longest chain and really I I don't
agree with the reason why they forked
and all they're doing is introducing new
issues and i hope that et Cie doesn't
follow the same route and is a little
more conservative with it its deployment
and thickness 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah we're definitely
taking a security first approach as
opposed to accessibility so I think
philosophically etherium and et Cie have
have very different you know we forked
not just in protocol but we forked in a
lot of different ways way back you know
in the end of july so it and i just say



**Cory:**
i think the real reason why i like the
authority as much as as I do is for the
reasons that reason the fact that we we
all kind of caught it really quickly and
mitigated it right away I think that was
a you know a show of how good our
community is and how good ET c is is a
you know a blockchain to stick with


**Carlo Vicari:**
 um
for anyone listening out there core
me and and ninja are saying how great
the community is but it was these two
guys on slack that were hustling a whole
ton of info and just putting everything
together uh so really we for anyone
listening out there for the whole
community I just want to thank you you
guys you know Cory and ninja for you
know helping out so much that last
Wednesday and pretty much all the time
but last Wednesday especially because a
little bit pandemonium there for a few
hours 


**Cory:**
yeah yeah we're all invested in it
in some way or shape or form and you
know we have to all protect our
investment 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I understand oh


**Christian Seberino:**
 just
real quick Carlo to address your
question really briefly the the reason
for the issue on the etherium system was


**Carlo Vicari:**
yes thank 

**Christian Seberino:v
you a very subtle difference
and member the issue with the spam the
denial of service attacks right it was a
subtle difference in how they they fix
that problem that caused 


**Carlo Vicari:**
it OIC so was
fixed one way in parody and then fixed
another way and guest 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah that was what
caused there was a corner case with
eliminating all that junk that caused it
yes uh yeah so then I had a different
question for them the minors I'm getting
back to this idea that well how like me
and Randall thought we would just with
athyrium because we like it we can get
so cool but we don't like the fork after
et Cie came about did you feel like oh
my gosh now I have the cool technology
and on top of that they have the right
principal so this is just like to
perfect how could I not be part of this
this system this community that's the
way I thought it was just like a dream
come true do you guys feel that way


**Cory:**
 I mean yeah I felt that way



**Randall:**
that's the way if they're IAM should be
I mean eventually if it does reach full
scale IOT which is the end game for me
it would need to be completely
decentralized and not under a
centralized control 


**Christian Seberino:**
yeah


**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah we have we
have bitcoins principles going on you
know I was at the you know I told you
guys earlier I was a coin agenda and
there were a lot of the Bitcoin guys
over there and we were getting a lot of
support from people that were typically
hardcore Bitcoin and didn't even really
look at athyrium but when I was there I
don't think it was just cuz i was there
they would have told me you know oh
you're your chain sucks but they were
like oh you know go et Cie so that was
pretty cool


**Cory:**
 yeah that's a good feeling



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah that was pretty cool but um oh so
the other thing that wants to talk to
you guys about um now that we covered
kind of background you know what's going
on now how you got interested in ET c
and all that stuff and we touched on the
network issues that were experienced
last week what do you guys see i guess
on the horizon as far as ET c or any
thing you'd like to see going forward or
suggestions or just on maybe you know
far-off dreams that you have for the
platform and just kind of wild stuff
just throw it out there oh ok let's go
to ninja what



**Randall:**
 sure well you know why end
goals IOT and you know when that's when
the dow came about i was actually very
interested not in the dow in flock it
and what they wanted to deploy and the
technology that they offered was very
interesting to me it's just how it was
the point what was was very badly
executed 


**Carlo Vicari:**
mean one cantract 


**Randall:**
yes that
was bad all I wanted was I wanted you
know the idea with the smart locks and
you know IOT devices i mean you know
basically etherium with the smart
contract is the control mechanism for
mesh networks for renting out drones it
can do anything once it's perfect
and of course you assign monetary value
to in order to you know provide that
level of control so I was very intrigued
with that and that's what I would like
to see etherium finally reached those
levels but but I think to reach those
levels we need to step back a little and
I you know I think the etherion
foundation did a great job with coming
out with you know the greatest coolest
ideas but I I think basically what we're
doing is increasing our attack surface
and it and it's getting so broad that
you know it's just it's like Swiss
cheese when they start adding all this
new stuff so I think bring that back
simplify the contract system basically
bring accessibility right now we don't
have accessibility you know I know the
stuff and it's very hard for me to
deploy a contract I mean I got to
install the client I got it you know I
got down the block chain you know of
course you know what am I going to
compile it in if we can make contracts
very easily deployed and you know and
somehow get them to be easily deployed
on smart devices then we can start you
know really introducing blockchain to
the real world because you know right
now you know bitcoins gone a long way
but right now I think they cryptos kind
of feeding on itself I mean we have
exchanges we you know you got to die
sites you got all that stuff but it's
just it's just a snake eating its own
tail and I think with IOT and being able
to integrate this block chain in the
devices that lets say you know I could
have a I think one into one example I
had was a cell phone throwaway cell
phone you just put a smart contract on
it you hand it out when they turn it on
all they have to do is you know feed it
some ether or ET c and they they have 10
minutes of time and then you can pass it
on to somebody else that that type of
technology to where it provides the
monetary value that's decentralized so
you have a reseller of that cell phone
and he may get a percentage of that
smart contract this free program
and 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah there's all sorts of wild stuff
Corey do you have any you know wild
far-off scenarios for that means here I
think



**Cory:**
 either ninja took the words out of
my mouth I mean I think you know with
all currents all crypto currently you
know it's exactly that it's crypto you
know the average user doesn't really
fully understand how it works or what to
do or what I can do with it I think
educating the community and kind of
focusing on making etherium classic arm
usable in the real world would benefit
benefit the world actually by breaking
it down or or let's say you know maybe
not necessarily developing having to be
a developer to do something on the
blockchain maybe being able to do
something on your own on the blockchain
without you know having a higher
developer so I think that's where in
once we could do that then we can easily
get it like Ethan under said smartphones
devices other companies corporations you
know we can be centralized it more by
opening it up to you know every avenue
and in letting everybody have an
opportunity to to use a block chain and
understanding



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah I think what he was
saying also about sorry Krishna I'd like
what he was saying also about kinda you
know taking two steps back to move three
steps forward um so I think that's
important also uh just reduce reduce
those attack vectors and I know Charles
and some other people and other
developers and oft are they talk a lot
about like functional programming
languages kind of like Haskell and and
patna you know Haskell and stuff like




**Christian Seberino:**
that that's not a language functional
language that people talk about for this
stuff 



**Carlo Vicari:**
Oh what's up what's the you know
Charles talks a lot about Haskell and
stuff like that Christian writing code
in Haskell if what uh what programming
language would that before


**Christian Seberino:**
 no I was just
going to say Haskell and skyla are two
big functional languages that people are
looking into to help make more secure
smart contracts
I also wanted to thank you guys for
making the comment about what you know
we need better educational materials
that's kind of what I'm my little
mission in life recently is to kind of
make it easier for people to get
involved with this technology and also
just in case anybody doesn't know but by
IOT we all mean the Internet of Things
basically pushing out the Internet to
not just run on desktops and smartphones
but also write refrigerators can openers
door locks and everything else now I
don't want to get spent too much time on
this but I was just curious to make your
vision Randall come true because there's
a shortage of ipv4 addresses I assume
that it has to wait that's just going to
require ipv6 internet protocol version 6
that much sooner to make your vision
come true that right


**Randall:**
 others other ways
nati protocols but yeah IP version 6 you
know it is deployed in a lot of
environments actually I had it on the
pool for a little while I IP version 6
really is really complicated actually I
think I think most of it could probably
still be performed with just regular
ipv4 or whatever comes next so I I don't
think thats so much an issue 



**Carlo Vicari:**
ok yeah oh
so kind of kind of one far-off scenario
i was talking about this with eric some
Dahal i'm not sure how to pronounce his
last name but he helps a lot in the HTC
community this was our two of our kind
of way off IOT you know et Cie future
smart contracts one was if you can
envision like too smart too smart cars
with that driverless smart cars that
have an insurance contract built in and
if one crashes into the other it knows
based on the GPS coordinates like which
one was at fault and it executes a smart
contract to pay out you know accordingly
and adjust the insurance rates
accordingly all sorts of wild stuff like
that 


**Cory:**
yeah I was going to say that not to
drop you but I'm actually I really enjoy
working with Eric a lot I've been in a
lot of talk to him as a matter of fact
me and him are actually working on a
project can't really say too many
specifics but working on a project
together that potentially revolutionize
and bring more miners to hopefully at
three o'clock


**Carlo Vicari:**
 oh that would be awesome


**Cory:**
so yeah I was as soon as more
information comes about and we get the
prototype and everything ready I think
well maybe next you know couple episodes
will we'll be announcing it



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah
feel free to you know I understand
keeping things under wraps you know at
certain points in time but we'd love to
hear more about it the future for sure
absolutely



**Christian Seberino:**
 I have a question for the two
minors uh so if somebody listening that
says okay I think I want to try mining
so maybe they have their nvidia graphics
card at home or whatever they have and
they they decide to try mining tomorrow
what can they expect I know you said
with Bitcoin you could be you could have
a whole hillside full of miners and not
get a Bitcoin but so what can they what
can the average joe expect that they
take put their toe in the water



**Cory:**
 you know
for most miners actually athyrium isn't
it isn't too complicated to start mining
athyrium other other ones out there can
be complex but you know depending on if
you're going to mine with n AMD chipset
or a nvidia chipset AMD really is the
preferred video card for a theorem
although I have been testing some nvidia
ten 60s and i'm getting almost the same
hash rate is you know a 470 you know
overclocked so i would say that finding
the right minor is important whether
you're on Linux or Windows making sure
that you're using the right minor you
know if you want to pay a fee you can
use claymores or you can use general you
know generals eth minor there's no fees
with him but you know the right minor
the right drivers the right ocl is the
most important thing and you know if
you're starting to get into it you're
not so sure about it if you really need
help just come to slack community we're
all there to i'll get you started 



**Christian Seberino:**
what
photos see it


**Carlo Vicari:**
 oh sorry go ahead
christian sir 



**Christian Seberino:**
what's the ocl
don't know 


**Cory:**
so to break it down it's a
you know it's an open you know the open
source driver that allows video cards to
communicate with software or be able to
control your your GPUs with a piece of
software I'm ready to break it down
basically


**Christian Seberino:**
 okay 


**Cory:**
so you've got you know
two versions you got AMD's you know
version and you've got Nvidia CUDA
version 

**Carlo Vicari:**
so over for a question I had a
question I had for the real like mining
newbies um and I think this is something
I've seen a lot of people look into and
I've never really asked to mining
experts about it and this seems like a
great opportunity um minor gate seems to
be something that uh now I'm not
endorsing this in any way I'm not saying
it's good i'm not saying it's bad but
it's something that I've seen very
novice or very new miners look into it's
kind of like a gateway I guess so I
wanted to know what your opinions are on
it feel free to praise or bash away I
actually don't know much and was
wondering what you guys if you have any
thoughts on it oh um I don't know if
that's uh yeah it means ninja if you
could jump in on that 


**Randall:**
yeah what I know
very little about minor gate but I do
know a little bit about this cloud hash
teen in general and typically typically
you know I shouldn't say this typically
a minor does not profit from cloud
hashing unless you have a strategy
unless you're able to determine you know
the difficulties low or you have some of
but for the most part you're not going
to profit too much off of cloud hashing




**Christian Seberino:**
okay that was that was kind of the angle
of my last question I was it was can
somebody expect to make money if they
just jump into this tomorrow as a
beginner well they swell they see their
ether account balance go up



**Cory:**
 I'm sure I'm
sure they will but I don't know if
they're also going to see their electric
bill go up and by the time the
speculations they're probably going to
end up negative


**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah


**Cory:**
 so I don't know so
I mean it really depends on how you look
at it again like ninja said is a
strategy if you're going to use these
like minor grade is gay minor gate is a
great platform for a newbie you know
which kind of touches on kind of work
what I was getting at is is you know
opening up other products and athyrium
to to lure in newbies



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah I think I was
gonna say that too i think minor gate is
obviously something you don't want to
stick with as you become more of a
veteran in mining but i think it's a
great gateway for someone that's
interested in crypto interested in
mining and kind of wants to you know
hash away while they learn about what's
kind of going on behind the scenes but I
didn't know if yeah they have you know
some negative things going on behind the
scenes um that maybe you guys were privy
to that I didn't know about deep you
know their knowledge 


**Cory:**
I know they charge
high fees and by the time all I was done
I really didn't end up with anything 



**Carlo Vicari:**
I
see but


**Randall:**
 yeah I wrote a few things in the
room or the rumor mill but the thing is
the crypto industry there's really two
opposing factors you got hype and you
got bud and believe it you know half of
what you hear none of what you see right
so you know take it with a grain of salt
and you know it's definitely a good way
to get introduced into you know mining
and there's more than one use case than
some the for mining than just trying to
profit because a lot of times if you
don't do all your calculations right you
know you either break even or take a
loss and you know unless you're going to
sell off your hardware when you're done
and you know one of the use cases is to
buy into the crypto without to an
exchange and also it allows you to
dollar cost average into your investment
so I personally use it to dollar cost
average in if I feel that the price is
going to go up but I don't want to dump
you know five hundred dollars in all at
once and watch it drop five percent and
panic and sell I could just say well i'm
just going to dollar cost in you know
some plowed hash over the next you know
four or five days and then I you know
basically got into the investment you
know at different levels 




**Carlo Vicari:**
right right and
also
you know I guess you can mitigate any
slight losses you have from remaining
you know if you mind unprofitable but
you did your research on a particular
block chain of cryptocurrency as it
appreciates in value those losses can
become huge gains you know if you did
your research properly I guess right
correct 



**Christian Seberino:**
I had a question so you're you
guys are are describing the details of
how buying and selling at the right time
and affect your your bottom line but
also hardware wise am I correct that
there's there's a lot more to it there's
an art to what you guys do it's not just
get everything set up and then just sit
back for six months


**Cory:**
 yeah i mean i would
say it took me oh my gosh it took me
over a year to kind of build out my farm
the way the way until I really started a
profit you know so my first rig was
really expensive to build because I just
wanted to build a rig and you know so i
wouldn't bought off to stop and yeah so
so one thing I learned the uglier the
better you know uglier it is the better
it is because it's less money on your
pocket you know in buying the right
video cards you know I went out and
bought our 93 90 x is like oh my god
these things are beasts well here they
are each card drawn 400 watts of peace
times no 12 and I get my electric bills
you know seventeen hundred dollars my
wife was like we're getting divorced so
you know you know you learn quickly and
don't sell all that stuff off and buy
some new buy some new cards I went with
some poor 70s because I can overclock
them and I can get you know a little bit
lower hashrate but more so the the power
savings I'm getting Adams is amazing
versus what what I was paying before you
know and then I knew Nvidia's testing
them you know I'm maxing out at like 80
watts and these invidious and I can you
know build a whole you know four rigs
and use the same amount of parties using
for six parties



**Carlo Vicari:**
 right it's so it's uh
it's like the difference between if you
go to like a street race and you see the
the really nice Porsche and then I don't
know if you've ever seen the the street
race videos like a soup
minivan and it breaks off you know yeah
it doesn't like a quarter mile



**Cory:**
 yeah in
the touch on that was one of the reasons
to why a kind of came up with minor hub
was ultimately I I'm trying to make it
kind of a centralized place where you
know miners can come gather and discuss
you know how to overclock their stuff or
you know participate and help each other
and potentially put up some guides on
how to start mining something and
turning it into an easy process you know
for like et Cie 



**Carlo Vicari:**
definitely what's the a
full let web link for that will put it
in the description for you guys watching
on YouTube but what's the full link for
that just so everybody is


**Cory:**
 WWE minor a to
beo minor hub that I 


**Carlo Vicari:**
oh cool cool and
uh I know ninja you you have you have a
pool as well I don't know if you want to
let everybody know about that



**Randall:**
 yeah sure
that II pooled I oh 


**Carlo Vicari:**
ok cool so we'll put
that description for everybody listening
on YouTube um I think we'd be running
just about an hour now I don't know if
there's anything else you want to touch
on Christian



**Christian Seberino:**
 um I was just curious about
the I Chandler is a big minor in China
as a big ET SI fan and I was just
curious why is he so such hot stuff in
the mining communities he just the
awesome hardware expert or or daddy gave
him a lot of money to buy a lot of GPUs



**Cory:**
he probably has a very large farm 


**Carlo Vicari:**
he
does um also he's um uh he speaks a lot
over in China as well and you know he
does a lot of interviews so he's got not
only a lot of hardware mining currently
as we speak but he's also very active in
the community and you know he's pretty
pretty good guy and everything like they
in the newsletter actually there's an
interview he did with I think it's
crypto coin news.com so you guys want to
check that out


**Christian Seberino:**
 okay


**Carlo Vicari:**
 so yeah he's got a
big mining farm a lot of connections and
he's you know active in the community as
well which is pretty awesome but uh huh
so I don't know if there's anything else
you guys want to touch on or anything
like that


**Cory:**
I'm good I'm you know I appreciate the
time and uh hopefully we'll be on more
often 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah yeah absolutely so we're
gonna say ninja

**Randall:**
 thank you


**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah yeah
absolutely so um thanks again for coming
on guys uh you know now we've had
developer on we've had a minor on we've
had another community member i was bill
last last show from the dash community
so we're getting a lot of great
interviews going and thank you guys for
coming on and we'd love to have you guys
on again in the future for sure


**Christian Seberino:**
 yes
definitely

**Randall:**
 thank you 


**Carlo Vicari:**
i thinking
everybody thank you later thanks for
helping uh and thanks for joining us
guys tonight take care take care thank
you goodbye
you
