#Let's Talk ETC: 25 Anthony (Pyskell) - What's New In ETC.
Christian Seberino:
all right welcome to another episode of
let's talk et Cie I have a previous
guest with me today Anthony who you may
know as high school on et Cie slack and
now discord so he's going to be talking
about all that's new in etc' in the
space so welcome Anthony 



Anthony:
thanks for
having me Christian 




Christian Seberino:
yeah so I the reason
I wanted to have you on is because I
love your paper that was listing all of
the things that are happening in et Cie
and I fear that some people that if they
only look at ATC reddit they would think
that there was nothing going on for the
people that don't know correct me if I'm
wrong but there was some malicious
actors that were making the epc reddit
problematic to use as the central
communication source and so we moved to
a lot of people moved to eat a slack
Channel
but then there's been some issues with
that and so it's possible that a lot of
people weren't staying in the loop and
not knowing where to get good
information without trouble so what what
well first of all I would did everything
I just say is that all correct



Anthony:
yeah that's mostly correct as far as
etc' Retta goes i I don't have min that
so I'm not too up-to-date on the issues
with it I don't really think there's
that many issues with the subreddit I
just think that uh it depends on your
communities people choose to communicate
in different ways so for Bitcoin and
aetherium they're very active on reddit
Bitcoin so active on reddit that they've
split into different clans on reddit
whereas other crypto currencies like EDC
that they're more active on on discord
and slack so is Cardno
on top of that you know you have other
ones like Ripple they are also pretty
active on discord and their own you know
private forums and that type of stuff so
it really depends and yeah I think a lot
of people when they're first looking for
information on stuff like this they
think ready to is the default so they go
to it mm-hmm
so yeah there's a there's that which
creates some difficulty for people to
find information and then the other
thing is a lot of things are you know
very technical and like you'll have your
devs they're all working on developing
things and making the network better and
so you may sometimes miss out on the
actual information like they might
develop some things and all their
changes are basically in a change log or
they're in little notes somewhere but
they're not anywhere like centralized
that's easy for people to digest mm-hmm
so yeah it can be a bit of an issue that
hopefully will get better and better as
time goes on



Christian Seberino:
okay now the issue I was thinking of
with Reddit was that well it's it used
to be hostile especially right after the
DAO fork right now very and so and that
obviously has subsided and the other
issue I was thinking about was where
people that didn't support et Cie they
would down vote links and contributions
because I didn't want them to you know
get get go viral but I I guess you could
say that that doesn't really impact
well I doesn't impact reddit if people
are down voting and theirs is that a
reason to not use reddit



Anthony:
 I mean yeah
that impacts things but you know it's
not it's not that I wouldn't say it's
that big anymore I think people have
largely moved on I moved on







Christian Seberino:
 yeah okay
well that's good and then I know I
recently moved from slack to discord and
there was some issues slack was getting
annoying you want to elaborate on what
why a lot of people did that



Anthony:
 yes so it's
been happening to a lot of the crypto
related slacks where people will just
get these unsolicited messages and you
know we did we were do
our best to bend BOTS as they came up
but the problem is there were just so
many of them and so life doesn't really
give you any tools to you know prevent
it
mmm where is discord you have a lot of
options you know in order to stop those
types of messages so that's that's
basically why we did the move to discord
and why some other groups also did did
it I actually also like this chord just
better it's a it's a bit slicker and
seem to have a you know I don't think
slack really wants its platform to be
for for large open-source projects I
think they just want to focus on
business stuff which is fine it's there
right like right that's why we moved




Christian Seberino:
 I
see so I think I know the answer I'll
ask it anyway so if somebody is
listening to the show and they're
hearing about all these issues and so
they want to know just tell me where I
can I can go to get in on the action to
hear what's really going on with etc'
what would you what would you be your
answer today



Anthony:
 I would recommend my my my
medium posts and also Serpas he goes by
surfaces real names Wei Tang he has a
great blog too with more technical
details that world is his website and
yeah a few other places would just be
you know the if you wanted to really dig
deep you could just go to the various et
Cie dev website so the dev team you know
they list their roadmap and updates they
have you know their changes on github
and everything but really if you just
want an overview I would suggest going
to my blog and the there's also the
regular eat et Cie blog mm-hmm the web
address 




Christian Seberino:
if they're in classic that org
slash blog yeah be it






Anthony:
 and yeah so that's
basically where they could go and I also
wouldn't say that et Cie is having
problems beyond what uh what any group
would have issues with when you know
growing is that you tent on top of
getting a lot of positive attention on
top of getting a lot of adoption and you
know the more eyeballs you get the more
you're also going to have people who you
know for whatever reason they want to
they have some other motive that's not
in line with your goals so they'll find
ways to either mess with that or to I
guess in the in the case of the scammers
that were plaguing us for a while to try
and profit on that in another way so
really I honestly I see it as almost a
good thing because it just means that
we're it's it's worth even bothering
with like if you're not worth bothering
with at all then that's just the worst



Christian Seberino:
yeah so what you're saying is all of
these issues with these communication
media has is not a reflection on the
technology of e.t.c




Anthony:
 no yeah yeah yeah et
Cie is doing great it's still all the
original etherium approach and on top of
that you know it's got a lot of
improvements in the pipeline




Christian Seberino:
 now before
I get into your your paper that held all
the great info I wanted to ask you a
question that's always fascinated me and
fascinated a lot of other people so some
people will sometimes wonder why would
somebody care enough to volunteer their
time whether it's to write a Wikipedia
article or contribute to an open-source
software project so I've I've really
been impressed with your your efforts I
see you on the discord Channel and
you're you're consistently helping out
and and communicating there so what what
is your motivation to do all this great
work that you might not get all the
credit that you deserve for



Anthony:
 I don't know
I mean I do I do some some things I
don't think I contribute as much as a
lot of the dev teams and that type of
stuff but you know just work it's there
it needs to be done and for whatever
reason I enjoy doing it so I also I
freelance so there's times where you
know I have a little bit of
free time anyway so it's actually
beneficial to me sometimes to have other
little side projects and I just work on
this way I can you know keep busy




Christian Seberino:
 okay
okay good well we all appreciate your
your contributions your help
yeah so let's get into it then for the
people that want to know all the stuff
happening in etc' or classic as some
people call it so we've got the summit
coming up in Hong Kong you want to say
anything about that





Anthony:
yeah that's gonna be the first etc'
summit it's basically put together by or
well it's funded by grayscale which is
an investment company that offers you
know a funds they have funds that trade
in Bitcoin and aetherium classic and I
think they are in the process of adding
Z cash but that's part of their pledge
to contribute to the etherium classic
community more so I think they decided
to pledge about what is it half a
million dollars a year in funding and
some of that's going towards the EDC
summit and the rest will probably go to
dev teams or whatever but that's that's
up to them to decide so without getting
too much off topic
yeah the e.t.c summit is on the 13th and
14th they're having it in Hong Kong I
know that I know a few of the speakers
that are going to be speaking I don't
think they've made any of the official
announcements yet though so I don't I
wouldn't want to you know give that up
whatever you see on the EGC summit comm
website is the most current information





Christian Seberino:
right right okay and then the the
Twitter you mentioned the Twitter feed
is that do you are you organizing that
and now the Twitter feed is a run by
Kevin you guys okay he's on the discord
under the username classic heaven okay
and yeah he does the he does this word
feed 




Christian Seberino:
okay okay great and then let's see
for the users you mentioned a couple
projects and gave some news so the
emerald wallet now with token and ledger
nano s support so what do you mean by
token support 





Anthony:
so basically any you know
like a theorem has a ton of tokens like
they'll have like golem and I don't even
know the names of the other ones because
I don't follow okay
yeah I just native support for those so
that you don't have to so that it's a
lot easier to to transfer tokens around





Christian Seberino:
okay so so etc' aetherium and aetherium
classic have their native currency right
which is referred to as ether so when
you say tokens support you're talking
about all these ICO coins right that are
built on top of these platforms so it
you know



Anthony:
 all the icons oaken's 




Christian Seberino:
right
which because of the standards such as
ER c 20 they can they can you know
exchanges can easily use service them
etc etc and then also what is a ledger
nano s you want to say a couple things
about that



Anthony:
yeah that's a hardware while it so you
like my ether wallet for example i
support for them they have their own
native clients too it's just a way for
people to store their coins without
having them on a physical machine so
it's a it's a lot more secure because i
if somebody gets access to your computer
they have access to your wallets and
this way if even if somebody gets access
to it they still don't have access to
your to your funds 



Christian Seberino:
now the fact that the
emerald wallet development community
made support for that is that because
they believe that it's a great hardware
wallet and or does it have the most
market penetration is that something
that is that the hardware wallet people
should be looking looking at first you
know




Anthony:
 I don't really know I can't speak
to their motives it's just it does seem
to be a popular one that I think a lot
of people seem to be using




Christian Seberino:
 ok ok
buyer beware right still have to do your
due diligence make sure it's the right
one for you




Anthony:
 yep from what I can
Ledger's seems like a very reputable
company 




Christian Seberino:
now this is this is my lazy way
to sometimes make the right decision so
I'm not saying it's foolproof but if
like if a hardware wallet is really
popular and a lot of other people are
talking about it I'll assume rightly or
wrongly that well it's probably good or
else because if it was bad right people
wouldn't be using it so much and talking
about it but 




Anthony:
yeah that's fair





Christian Seberino:
yeah okay and then uh let's see Daedalus
did I pronounce that correctly
Daedalus





Anthony:
 yeah I think it's Daedalus it's
the father of the guy in that Greek myth
who flew too close to the Sun I think





Christian Seberino:
okay okay and prometheus
I don't reveal my ignorance I I don't
know if I think that's his name but not
sure all right and so you want to say
something about Daedalus what what is
that for people that don't know






Anthony:
so Daedalus is a while it developed by
IO H K which is one of the teams working
on a theorem classic product projects
right now though the wallet itself is
really it's more focused on card ah no
because they just launched that network
but uh one of the first things that
they're doing and one of the things that
they're planning to use card I know in
the future is for but making it easy to
use that wallet to swap between coins so
that if you you know if you hold a
theorem classic and you want to swap to
Bitcoin or something or preferably you
want to go the other way from bitcoins
to a theorem classic you can do that




Christian Seberino:
okay so yeah they I see yeah no I didn't
I didn't mean to cut you off there so so
you're they're making it supports
bridges then between blockchain systems



Anthony:
yeah basically 



Christian Seberino:
okay now and then do you
want to say anything about carga no I
this that's the second time you've
mentioned it you said on your in your
paper you said you used it on card gano
are you a fan of card a no and what do
you think about card a no 





Anthony:
I think it's a
really interest
thing uh blockchain I like I kind of
like how they've they're putting a lot
of effort into formalizing a lot of
their program which basically means they
can mathematically prove that certain
things work certain ways mm-hmm which is
a really nice advantage also I've seen
Charles Hoskinson talk about you know
once they get some of that technology a
bit more irons out you know trying to
integrate what parts they can into a
theorem classic as well





Christian Seberino:
 okay okay so so
technology from car gano could could be
could be ported to et Cie you're saying





Anthony:
yeah okay that's one of the beauty of
open source in general but it's really
nice that uh you know you have this well
run a very technically capable team that
is it's not only that the source code is
available it's that you have the talent
there behind the source code to also
help out and to you know actually make
those contributions happen




Christian Seberino:
 right right
and I and they they can't just obviously
do testing on et Cie so let's just throw
something in there and see if it works
all right so so maybe they could do some
practice test some things in Cardno and
then port them if people trust them and
believe in the innovations





Anthony:
 oh yeah sure
I don't think they would test on either
live network but yeah basically an
install so yeah it's it's a nice little
feature 





Christian Seberino:
but I mean then what's the
what's the reason to have kargh a No
then if it's gonna have if it's a live
network why not just do everything on et
Cie arts
 I mean you could 




Anthony:
yeah you could
ask Charles I think they ultimately are
targeting different use cases and
different things so I'm not too inclined
I'm not too privy as to their
motivations behind each I just know that
they've been working on it for
long time so whatever their goals were
it was actually before EDC was even a
thing 




Christian Seberino:
I see I see okay okay good
and then Dex ms so if I'm not mistaken
that's a naming service for et Cie yes
made by Dex Aram is that how his alias
is that he goes by as I say that correct



Anthony:
yeah he goes by Dexter and uh and he's
in charge you know now there's actually
a few people on his team for a theorem
theorem Commonwealth and yeah Dex NS is
a name service that runs on EGC and it's
actually it provides a couple it's a
little different from etherium zns the
theorem actually has two name services
we have Dex and s and E C NS both of
which I believe are made by etherium
Commonwealth and the difference there
being Dex and s is more targeted towards
if you if you're like running a token
contract or something and you want to
just register a essentially a domain
name so that you can point it at your
token contract you would use that and
then ECNs is a more direct port of
theorems NS



Christian Seberino:
 okay okay so there's two
options 



Anthony:
yeah there's two options and
they each have different features
depending on what you're looking for
basically yeah and I don't really know
so I would I can speak too much to them







Christian Seberino:
right right now I personally was really
impressed with Dex I ran I've never met
him or talked to him except on on the
chatroom
but he just he write he raised funding
he started his own third Development
Group right and now that he's the one
that runs et Cie Commonwealth 




Anthony:
right oh
yeah that's all now he's turns great




Christian Seberino:
 I
mean he just man he's just proactive
right to the extreme okay and then and
then my ether wallet and plastic ether
wallet so what's
what's going on there 




Anthony:
they they made
some improvements to basically you know
avoid some issues when when you have
funds on both chains and classic ether
while it was also in the past few months
they were pushing in some updates which
I think I'm I'm pretty sure they got put
into my Thor wallet mainline to just
basically enhance the etherium classic
functionality within my theeth or wallet
hmm so classic ether wallet is kind of
uh you know they'll implement a feature
over there and then they'll send it to
my Thor wallet and say hey do you want
to add this so it's you know it's both
teams kind of working together now to uh
you know to integrate things so yeah not
working together like hands and hands
but when they produce useful stuff it
tends to transfer over to the other side





Christian Seberino:
good well I don't know this is what you
mean by cross chain security but here's
here's something that happened to I that
I I was in part of recently I was
teaching a class on block chains and I
had people install Jack's the the cell
phone app and I was going to send them
et Cie as a demo so I said okay email me
the your address and you know the first
couple people that email me their
address et Cie address I'll send them
some some ether and so these were these
are all beginners and one guy
accidentally sent me his Bitcoin address
because Jack's right autumn that's like
the first one that comes up so then I of
course I sent the etc' to the Bitcoin
address and then it's process probably
lost most most likely but I saw I don't
know if that's what you mean by cross
change security but something perhaps
where it could write the wallet could
kind of it could access the the relevant
block Explorer and say hey that this
address exists on this other chain is
did you you sure
that this is the one that you meant to
use your this there's a Bitcoin address
or there's an ETA check you know what I
mean is that that would 






Anthony:
yeah it's kind
of similar it was basically where you
would go send some token somewhere and
they would just get stuck because you
sent them on the wrong chain or
something to that effect basically






Christian Seberino:
 right
yeah that's I'm talking about yeah you
sent it there's so many right tokens ERC
20 tokens and blockchains like it's not
there's gonna be a lot more of that
people using an address from a different
blockchain system by accident 






Anthony:
oh yeah
definitely and it's definitely something
that people need to look at more
seriously I think there's a lot of
people now not not so much on the
etherium classic side we all seem to be
pretty Pro trying to solve that issue
but I see on some other chats that
people basically you know somebody will
be new to this they'll believe in it and
they'll then go and lose a bunch of
money and then we go and blame the
victim that it's hard to use like that
just sounds awful no this is difficult
to use you shouldn't be able to so
easily lose your money you like there's
there's limits where yeah at some point
you can't protect people from themselves
but just the idea that there's nothing
we can do when there are things like ERC
20 for example is an excellent example
er C 20 the implementation of it came
about because there was a flaw in the
etherium codebase that they then patched
but the way ER C 20 worked was you can
only send tokens to another address if
the other address knows it's receiving
the tokens and the other address has to
perform an action also what would happen
is people would send these tokens to
addresses that weren't prepared to
receive them and then they get stuck
right and so now you've got a theorem
Commonwealth was xrn he made the ERC two
to three token that just avoids that and
so you can't accidentally send it to an
address where you're not going to be
able to get it back okay
so yes so that type of stuff it's it's
nice to solve because really we
shouldn't be like if somebody loses
$60,000 yeah that's awful
yeah right and that's not gonna help
your adoption rate if people are gonna
be afraid that they're gonna lose their
tokens 




Christian Seberino:
yeah I did I did notice solidity
added a key word payable so if you if
you want to be able to send currency to
a certain smart contract function in it
that has to be set up to receive it if
it's not you can't send currency to that
function slice so a lot of different
people are trying to solve this problem



Anthony:
so yeah that's that's that's not exactly
the same thing but 




Christian Seberino:
yeah yeah different
it's a different solution but it's all
it's all about trying to avoid people
losing their money right yeah basically
yeah
all right good and then and then classic
masks do you want to say a little bit
about that so first of all what is for
people I don't know what is meta masks
in classic masks




Anthony:
 meta masks and classic
masks are a way to basically access your
wallets from your browser so that you
can I don't actually use them like I
don't use either so I don't know too
much about them but they're basically
where you can send funds uh to you can
like transfer money to a website or pay
somebody through your web browser okay
and so just they added xns support so I
felt it was worth mentioning





Christian Seberino:
 okay great
yes so all of these little improvements
like like the decks and nest support
that you somebody might think well
that's just a tiny little improvement
right but in time all these little
improvements add up to a big deal right





Anthony:
yeah they add up and also there's you
know there's a lot more like further
down the article there's a much more
major improvements basically I tried to
start out what was most user facing and
then
mm-hmm the bigger things which will have
a much larger impact in the long run






Christian Seberino:
okay
oh and then I wanted to ask you this guy
I saw all this discussion on slack about
the logo and I believe I believe you
were really involved with that and I you
mentioned in your paper the Phoenix
project so I think that's something
that's being on your heart so why don't
you describe the people to say what's
what's going on there





Anthony:
yeah the Phoenix project which is a name
that Quebec gravanos the one working on
that and he he came up with that name
basically after I had done a poor job of
naming the project yeah that was that
was basically I'm very happy with it
there's basically a decent draft and
he's just finalizing some things and
it's gonna be released soon
but we've got you know a mascot
basically that kind of represents what
the theorem classic stands for in our
minds which is you know something that's
very trustworthy and dependable and then
on top of that there's a whole set of
branding guidelines it's actually if for
the contributors they've already seen it
it's a beautifully laid out a PDF file
slash guide on how to theme your project
to kind of go to kind of give a
consistent feel between the various at
the game classic projects so we're
hoping people will eventually adopt it
and it's laid out in a very nice simple
way that makes it very easy for people
to you know say oh we're using aetherium
classic and we're following some of
their design guidelines but it doesn't
get in the way of your design so if
people have you know if they want to
show their how do I want to say this if
they want to if they already have an
existing design and they're using a
theorem classic now and they're
integrating with it then adopting
the etherium classic portion into it is
very simple because there's a lot of it
that's very customizable okay but it all
looks great and I wish I could tell you
more I guess we'll just have to wait to
see the actual you know final products
which should be coming out very soon





Christian Seberino:
right so our people so when I when I
think of the e.t.c logo I think of the
diamond that's that's similar to the ETH
logo so is is the motivation here to
replace that with the Phoenix or





Anthony:
 no not
replace it so basically the motivation
here is to just have another visual
representation of a theorem classic okay
so like with all projects it's not it's
not that anybody is saying this is your
the logo this is what you have to use if
you like a different logo then you know
go ahead and use it the mascot itself is
in a logo and then on top of that though
there is a in the in the final
deliverables there's going to be a kind
of redesigned a theorem classic logo I
think it looks beautiful and it still
keeps the same theme and branding so it
doesn't look very different it's very
still easily recognizable it's just a
bit more I almost want to say
customizable because it's you can adopt
it into your project pretty easily okay
yeah okay so hopefully like you can use
it I think they'll be blown away because
honestly like when I I saw this deck
like I was I was I fully believed in
Kwabena but he completely exceeded my
expectations




Christian Seberino:
 yeah I've always personally
liked the the idea of Phoenix from Greek
mythology right it I can see how its it
reminds you of the censorship resistance
and other properties of blockchains
right you could you can't kill it it
always comes back and so yeah I've
always liked the the idea of the Phoenix
alright great so then let's move on to
some more
Nicole or for the techies as you put it
so then you in your paper you mentioned
Callisto
so what do you want - what's what do
people Shh what should they know about
that or what's first of all what is
Callisto 




Anthony:
Callisto is a a new test neck
for a theorem classic that was proposed
by Johann grat Cyril I'm probably
butchering his last name yeah he works
on the etherium Commonwealth along with
Dex RN and basically you what you have
with the current aetherium classic test
net is it's a regular test net so it
works exactly like a theorem classic so
if you're creating another a new
contract or something or a new token and
you want to test it out then you would
use that because it's very it's
basically identical to the live a
theorem classic Network right where
Callisto would be different is if you
wanted to you know actually change a
theorem clastic itself and test that out
on a live network you know maybe
implement a new change that's going to
change the network itself mm-hmm what
you'd call a hard fork right then I
Callisto would be the place where that
could be done it's not live yet but it's
it's planned out and I'm sure they're
going to be a little deliver





Christian Seberino:
 okay yeah
great well yeah test test networks are a
wonderful thing and I presume also the
the faux ether on on Callisto on these
would be either free or less expensive
than on the the the real network o






Anthony:
h yeah
it's always free it's okay yeah because
it has it has no value which is okay
funny conceptually well 





Christian Seberino:
okay I have a
minor confession more or less about the
site when you're talking about using
test nets instead of testing on the real
network so when I was a while back when
I was learning about smart contracts and
of course the right when you when you
learn you make the proverbial hello
world or basically a really simple one
and and so I wanted to install it on the
real
network this was on eth that I did this
and then so I paid the few cents and I
installed it on the actual ETH network
and then it kind of bothered me I mean
it bothered me because now that I well
as I was learning about blockchain
architectures so every node on the
network has my stupid little hello world
program right and and so and it's gonna
be there for all time and that just kind
of bugged me that all these those
students are putting hello world
programs on the real net and so anyways
I even would 





Anthony:
say that's great why not
what 





Christian Seberino:
I would I even I went with so far
as to go on the parody channel get her
channel and I was talking about this and
Gavin Gavin would actually chimed in
because I had don't worry about it but I
don't know I just kind of it just seemed
wasteful to me a little bit but I mean
that's





Anthony:
 what it's there for right you
you're the price is set and once you
execute something on the blockchain
it just stays there permanently right
great yeah I think that's wonderful 



Christian Seberino:
okay
and then alright so and then Sputnik VM
what's going on with that




Anthony:
 so Sputnik VN
basically got some updates more tightly
integrated with truffled framework which
is basically the probably the best way
right now to write contracts for theorem
and etherion classic and also had some
other improvements to you know help
developers work you know you're fine
bugs faster basically okay and spending
vm for those that don't know is
basically you know how aetherium and
classic process things they you know you
it runs some computer code and then it
records in the blockchain of what
happens and so basically it's the same
exact thing except you don't need a
blockchain at all you know it's just for
it's for developers so that they can
more efficiently and quickly test their
projects




Christian Seberino:
okay
right right now I assume it's called
Sputnik because the leader of e.t.c dev
Igor is Russian so that just a guess but
yeah do you and then truffle for people
that don't know about truffle are you
from you use that or do you want to say
anything about about that



Anthony:
 yeah I've used
truffle a little bit before I don't
really develop contracts too much though
yeah yeah it's a nice little framework
and 






Christian Seberino:
so why why is it you want you said
it was probably the nicest way to
develop smart contracts what makes it so
nice you're gonna say a little bit about
that 





Anthony:
um so what makes truffle night well
I guess truffle is just a little less
hard to use than the alternatives I mean
they're all still everything's still new
on all them the etherion based networks
when it comes to development right yeah
truffle is just the nicest to use i I
can exactly quantify it okay okay and by
the way all of these just my opinion
other people might have a different
opinion and prefers something like what
three or





Christian Seberino:
 okay okay by the way all of
these technologies that were mentioning
your paper has links right so if people
go and I'll put a link to your paper and
then from there people can find all
these other technologies yeah okay okay
very cool and then and then you mention
some some improvement proposals 10 17
and 10:35 so what's what do people need
to know about those okay 






Anthony:
so 10 17 is
basically an improvement proposal to the
etherium classic network that will give
it a stable coin supply so right now on
aetherium the issue you have is that
there's no limit to the amount of coins
that will ever exist they'll keep
continuing you know they'll they'll
taper off but there's still no
potentially knowable quantity mm-hmm but
oh by stable you mean that there's a
market cap
there's a cap to the total supply yeah
there's a hard cap basically it sets the
theoretical the because it a lot of it
depends on hash rate and stuff and how
that goes over the years but it's that's
the theoretical cap at around two
hundred and ten million and the there's
a hard cap at two hundred thirty so that
it can't exceed it so this way you you
have an easier time valuing your classic
in the future right like with inflation
your dollar today might be worth ninety
eight cents next year at the same time
because there would be two percent
inflation so it's basically just a way
to address that same thing 





Christian Seberino:
okay okay
good so yeah depending on how you set
the inflation rate for a blockchain
system it could in it if it basically
shows whether you support right new
entrants or right old entrants that are
holding on to funds 






Anthony:
I don't even know if
it's about supporting one group or the
other I mean for one the stable coin
supply will take many many years to
really have an effect so agree to do it
early but it's more about just you know
making sure that your funds don't get
devalued it's more just a guarantee that
you know what you do have won't lose its
value over time because it's on top of
you know on top of the actual code it's
also kind of saying like this is the
attitude we have so with any blockchain
it's possible that if the majority like
for take Bitcoin for example the coin
will have a total of 21 million bitcoins
by a twenty the year 2100 and there's
that's not the only reason that happens
is because the code says it right it
could always change and if the majority
of miners decide hey we want it to be 50
million then they can do it mm-hmm so
it's just nice to see that that's kind
of the direction that the community
wants to go in is having a stable coin
supply and insisting that we
change it it makes it that much harder
to change it later






Christian Seberino:
 right right yeah and
then for people just in case anybody's
wondering when you issue when when you
are when a blockchain system is not
issuing new tokens anymore it doesn't
mean that the whole economy comes
grinding to a halt and because you can -
you can still pay fees to miners and
that can incentivize them to continue
adding blocks to the chain





Anthony:
 oh yeah
definitely
I mean you see that with Bitcoin - where
they already have the miner Awards and
money is more popular than ever




Christian Seberino:
 right
right right but I mean like when the 21
million
bitcoin is issued the the Bitcoin
economy is not gonna die right the next
day they'll just people just pay fees
yeah okay and then and then can't eat
the improvement proposal 10:35 mm-hm
as can you want to talk about that







Anthony:
 yes
so that one is basically it was promote
it was a proposed by Cody burns who's
actually I know for certain is gonna be
at the etherium classic summit and it's
just a way to have private transactions
so you know right now on the blockchain
if I were to send you money and somebody
knew both of our addresses they can just
know oh Anthony sent Christian a theorem
classic on this date and this block and
so ECI P 1035 is just a way to allow for
private transactions which is you know
it's important it's important not just
for end users but also important for
larger companies they don't want you
know competitors knowing who sends what
where every all the time that this right
you're giving your competitors you know
more information and then even in
certain localities like I know in the US
for example you're required to have
private transactions like there are no
public transactions for a lot of things
when it comes to bank accounts and that
type of stuff






Christian Seberino:
 right now I notice you
mentioned ZK snarks which is the
technology that Z
cash uses yeah that's one of those
things on my bucket list that I been
meaning to get around to learning more
about the mathematics of that but yeah
so that's interesting that you're eight
that there's the technology exists right
to have on an on an open blockchain to
have these private transactions and they
could still operate this kind of
astounding to me but yeah so is this
gonna kill is it gonna kill Z cash or
what what's gonna happen to Z cash once
people other people other change start
implementing ZK snarks any thoughts on
that well




Anthony:
 Z cash should be fine ZK
snarks
so I'm probably gonna get a little
off-topic but I'm not I'm really not a
fan of ZK snarks just because they have
two major issues one is that in order to
launch something with ZK snarks you need
to basically come up with a secret and
then destroy it and then whoever came up
with that secret everybody else needs to
trust that they actually destroyed it
and that they they were able to properly
get rid of it okay and because if not
then anybody can move any funds around
basically okay and then the other issue
with ZK snarks is that there's a
possibility that you wouldn't have a
knowable coin supply so if somebody
found an issue in the ZK snarks
algorithm and was able to create more
coins they could do it without anybody
else that's observing the blockchain
knowing that they did it so kind of
related to that is a theorem classic for
it's more private stuff is leaning more
towards 'men arrows ring CT than ZK
snarks okay largely for those reasons
because ring CT doesn't have any of
those issues ring CT is a much more
reliable form of having private
transactions 







Christian Seberino:
okay well I asked the right
person you certainly know more about
that than I do maybe we'll have to have
a show me and you in the future of
these private transactions and these
technologies that I know what do you
think





Anthony:
 yeah sure I mean higher higher
level like I understand ZK snarks in
ring CT the lower level stuff is a bit
beyond me okay yeah but I'm sure there
would be very few people who would want
who would be interested in understanding
the lower level stuff 




Christian Seberino:
okay yeah I'm a
math guy math nerds so maybe that's why
but yeah maybe a lot yeah maybe not so
much yeah
alright so we've covered a lot of
material so before we close is there
anything else that I forgot to mention
or that you want to mention 





Anthony:
uh let's see
so for my projects which I left out of
the article because I have standard I
have I don't think anybody won the a
theorem classic discord channel has the
best most advanced pricing but available
okay that's a little something I wrote
it's not very event actually it's just
there's not many options for that and
that





Christian Seberino:
 way pricing pricing for what the
price of ether et Cie or what do you
mean by price 




Anthony:
anything interest the body
you can ask it the price of any uh okay
Oh see I didn't know that so then 




Christian Seberino:
yeah
thank you great anything else 




Anthony:
yeah the
other one is and I don't know if I have
a link anywhere but I created a little
uh basically a tracker for your wallet
so it's called watch it that's on my
github and basically what it does is you
register your address with with the
website and if any funds move if any
monies deposited into it or anything's
taken out then it'll send you an email
and so I feel like that's useful for
people in general a lot of people don't
like it because it's tied to an email
address but I don't know how to get
around that but because one of the major
issues that all the crypto currencies
face right now is
that if somebody steals your funds you
you might not even know for a few days
afraid you're not checking so a great
way to be informed immediately because
if you're informed immediately you might
have you should have enough time to
contact whatever address those funds
were sent to and get them to send them
back to you
a lot of times they send them to you no
exchanges and they mix them around over
there and then move them out




Christian Seberino:
 right right
you that reminded me of I read a little
bit about the Mount GOx disaster and he
had all these mark whatever his last
name was
carpools or something like that he had
all these paper wallets and that some
hackers were siphoning money for over a
year I believe and if he would have had
something like that or write some kind
of built-in way to get notification that
people are pulling funds maybe he could
stop this sooner



Anthony:
oh yeah definitely



Christian Seberino:
 yeah so very cool
well thank you thank you Anthony Pye
skhul again for all the great work you
do thank you for enlightening us on
what's going on in etc' currently and
keep up the good work on discord
everybody please move the discord slack
is is inferior now right





Anthony:
 yeah I mean you
could do either I personally prefer that
people join the discord but again if you
like if you're on a bunch of other
slacks and you like using select then
you can continue to use it there is a
bot that sends all the messages back and
forth mm-hmm so that nobody's left out
anyway right and then 



Christian Seberino:
yeah and then ERC
excuse me IRC there's a there's channels
they're people that people are very good
about making bridges between all these
different choices




Anthony:
yeah there's IRC we even have a riot I
m1 which runs on the matrix network
which if you're very privacy focused
then that's also a great option for you
Ren there's a bot there's that sends
everything back and forth also so yeah
well connected I have your choice in
networks 



Christian Seberino:
all right well thanks again and
that's that's all I have all right
thanks fish each other
you
[Music]
you
