# Let's Talk ETC: Anthony (Pyskell) - Security & More.
**Carlo Vicari:**
hi everybody thank you for listening to
less talk ECC I'm your host Carla V
along with my co-host dr. Christian
suberino just to lead off with some
security first stuff guys crypto
currency allow the blockchain slacks
there's been some scams going on where
people are impersonating the communities
and sending out direct messages or using
slack bot to tell people to take their
crypto from my ether wallet and to
follow a link and they have to move it
immediately it seems like a very legit
professional message and a lot of people
are falling for it so just for anybody
listening out there just be aware of
that scam that's going on currently it's
going on in multiple slacks throughout
the space right now also if you have any
friends that maybe don't listen to the
show just try to let them know the more
people we can inform about this problem
that's going on the more people that
would be protected and you know it's
just better for the space overall that
the good guys keep keep the money and we
keep the money out of the hands of the
bad guys 




**Christian Seberino:**
can I just say one thing about
yeah if anybody's worried about that
just make sure you type the the web
address yourself for example my ether
wallet comm and make sure every letter
is correct you can imagine somebody
having a link with a the number one
instead of a L that's things like just
if you type it yourself or then you
should be fine 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yep and also another
disclaimer if you're not sure and and
weird things are going on with the
domain sites or you're hearing crazy
stuff don't panic and try to move your
coins the best thing you can do is just
sit tight if your private keys and
public keys are never put together in
any particular way you're safe
so the best advice if you're not sure
about domain names or what's going on is
to sit tight until you're 100% sure you
find out more information that makes you
100% secure with your funds now it's
just some now go ahead




**Anthony:**
yeah just one little thing related to
that too if you are consider
that I mean I know people get concerned
when they hear there's an attack even if
whether it's true or not and so one of
the things you can do actually without
giving away your private key is you
don't have to go to my ether wallet comm
you could go to a blockchain Explorer
like cash tracker or et Cie chain and
just put in your public address and then
you could see whether or not your
money's there or it's been moved in that
way 




**Carlo Vicari:**
very true very true start off good
thanks uh-huh so I'm just some some good
news we have some rumor stuff and some
concrete stuff will lead off with the
concrete stuff ETCs trading on COBE so
that's a pretty monster exchange we're
very very happy about that thank you to
the lobby team and everybody out there
that made that possible and also okay
coin looks like it's gonna be listening
e.t.c pretty soon I saw the etherium
classic reddit that it looks like July
15th so we're a day out from that so
that's a bit of a rumor although more
confirmed than anything and more on the
rumor mill side of things is the et Cie
being in the API of coinbase
so keep an eye out for that guys I don't
know a Christian and Anthony you guys
know a little bit about that so that
that's the API that's being shown in the
coin base is that right yeah so oh sorry
just to give everybody background this
is what they were telling me before the
show that litecoin showed up in the API
one month exactly before it was listed
on coinbase
so that's that's pretty awesome stuff
and we'd be really excited to be on
coinbase and so now that we went through
some of the good news rumor mill stuff
and some security stuff I just want to
thank Anthony high-skill he goes by
Pascal on skype on slack he's been a
contributor in community since the very
beginning great guy really happy to have
him on Anthony thanks for joining us on
the show 




**Anthony:**
thanks for having me 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah
absolutely
so high scale I think at
listen to the show maybe a couple of
times before but just to give you a
brief rundown we just like to introduce
some of the key community members to
people out there listening so that they
know you know who's working on the
project and some of the things that
they're doing so one of the things we
like to do to just introduce people to
the community especially if it's their
first time in the show is kind of what's
your background and you know start from
way back rent when kind of how you got
into development and stuff like that
like what was your your back story
behind how you got where you are today



**Anthony:**
okay so you know I've listened to a few
of the shows and I was expecting this
part so yeah I see where cryptocurrency
I got interested in that probably some
time I got mildly interested around 2013
2014 when all the mount Cox stuff was
happening yeah I wasn't trading at that
point or really participating in the
community I was just reading a bit about
it I thought it was really interesting I
thought it was crazy that Bitcoin was
like $200 and I couldn't I was like I
can't oh $200 at this I would be insane
and 



**Carlo Vicari:**
kick seems like you wanna choke
yourself now but 



**Anthony:**
ya know it's fine it'll
probably be again in a year 



**Carlo Vicari:**
no 




**Anthony:**
you need
a stable value for a currency but yeah
so I got it I got interested there at
first and then when I heard about
aetherium aetherium seem to solve and
address a lot of the issues that I saw
with Bitcoin primarily that Bitcoin all
it could do is transfer value and that
on top of that Bitcoin was having issues
where you know all their proof-of-work
algorithms were able to be basically
exploited or done a lot faster by custom
hardware and then it was you know
pushing a lot of people out of the
market and it was making it more
centralized so I thought if there might
be a you know a bit better for that



**Carlo Vicari:**
 now
what what's your background before you
got into crypto since it's such a new
thing you computer science developer
business development I
I guess you know kind of what's your
story before the whole cryptocurrency



**Anthony:**
yes so before cryptocurrency I'm not I'm
not I didn't learn to program in school
I was I work it I work as and I still
work as a project manager slash
programmer now and so I worked working
in industry called market research
basically new products that companies
want to introduce the market
my clients kind of test them out and
they tell them what to change what to
keep what products to move forward with
to the next stage and what to drop and
while I was doing that I found that
there were a lot of things that could be
done a lot faster by a computer so I
started just learning all I could in
Excel I still probably know Excel better
than I know absolutely anything and
after that after a while Excel showed
its limitations and I was tired of
working in it if anybody's ever worked
in VBA who's listening they would know
what that is and so yeah I moved on to
programming and then I ended up I've
been going on about two years now
running my own business basically just
doing a whole bunch of automation and
programming work 



**Carlo Vicari:**
and then that kind of
led into the crypto rabbit hole since
you're already in tech and development
and stuff like that is that correct


**Anthony:**
oh yeah definitely yeah and it made
getting into this stuff a lot easier and
it also you know it it also it's it's
really useful when you're looking at
stuff and you can actually see see the
code and understand what it's doing a
bit you don't need to like go really
deep dive but if you know how to program
and you're you're looking at some of
these things it's always good so just
check out the code base and just write
how everything's running you know you
got a code from good code pretty easily




**Christian Seberino:**
hey Anthony I gotta ask so you're an
entrepreneur you know about market
research have you thought about putting
that together and researching an
opportunity in the blockchain space and
then starting some kind
business there 




**Anthony:**
yeah I have thought about
pivoting and moving towards something
that's more related to cryptocurrencies
I just I don't know exactly what that is
yet



**Christian Seberino:**
okay seems like you would know with
your market research to have at least
baked as wise of a leap as you could
here doing some software and then nobody
wants to use it


**Anthony:**
 yeah I mean it's just
you know the marketing on its base is
really simple you just need to know
who's who your key market is and what
problems you're solving for people and
and get an idea of what that's worth so
if you see a lot of ideas they they like
sell very specific problems or you see
it a lot in cryptocurrencies where you
have a you have currencies that are for
one specific use case and it's just but
it's like that's not what a currency is
for so it's just you know yeah it gives
you a bit of an insight I guess



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah and
also I've always want to ask is so pipe
pie scale that's a reference to Python
and Haskell I'm guessing is that right




**Anthony:**
yeah that's correct 


**Carlo Vicari:**
okay all right you
experienced with either of those are
just kind of a fan I suppose 



**Anthony:**
Python yes
Haskell I Dublin more recently though
for functional languages I've been
teaching myself F sharp and I'm I'm
hoping to make a few things you know for
crypto currencies using F sharp




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah
this is uh this is Christian's
wheelhouse again 



**Christian Seberino:**
I got it so since you
like Python one of my little guilty
pleasures is the serpent smart contracts
ever messed with that 


**Anthony:**
no I haven't I
mean I've read about it but I haven't a
used Python for that yet 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah the world
seems to prefer solidity that that's a
perfectly valid one I think there's one
or two that I know of companies using
serpent but yeah so I just now but go
ahead 



**Anthony:**
I have a question related to that
community bug in in serpent 


**Christian Seberino:**
you could
simulate a blockchain and run it on the
mock blockchain that's what I do
and you could see yeah




**Anthony:**
but I mean like can I pause my execution
at a given line and see what my local
and global variables 



**Christian Seberino:**
I haven't done that
yet I haven't looked and maybe I I don't
look uh I will admit that flat out right
now that the if yes the tools aren't as
as as mature as they are for solidity is
a supports not there the markets not big
in it





**Anthony:**
 yeah because that issue too well
ok debugging is is difficult 


**Christian Seberino:**
I see 


**Carlo Vicari:**
have
you have you done anything specifically
in solidity yet or just kind of messing
around 



**Anthony:**
with it
there's a nonworking contract on my
github i just cannot figure out why the
test suite won't run my tests and i
can't figure it out that's




**Carlo Vicari:**
 pretty funny
so so you've been in etc' since like the
very very beginning what do you think of
you know where et Cie started and kind
of where it was and where it is now 





**Anthony:**
uh I
think it's absolutely amazing how far
ahead
EGC is pulled cuz you know at the start
and I guess when you're also looking at
edit all the time you don't really see
much much change but uh I mean just the
interest in et Cie has gone up a good
deal you know we have a lot more
developers now you know we've got two
dev teams and then Dex RN trying to make
a third dev team so yeah that's great I
think it's uh I think it actually you
know goes with the nature of etc' and
that we want to be more distributed or
not have a specific central authority I
think right now you see with the theorem
that a theorem foundation they are a
bunch of great people and they are good
programmers but there's other things
where just their management isn't as
good so yeah I'm actually really happy
with how far UTC's gone I wasn't sure
that it was going to last at first 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah
no I I definitely agree it's definitely
come so far and you know just crazy to
think about where we were
a year ago or you know the community I
should say 





**Christian Seberino:**
so why so are you a a rabid
et Cie fan do you do you never use ETH
or how what's your thought like how
strongly whatever what kind of an
emotional component is there too easy
for you 




**Anthony:**
oh you should keep emotions out
of this no e.t.c is is definitely my
favorite blockchain but as far as other
blockchains no I think I think there's a
ton of good ones out there or at least
there's a handful of good ones that they
all have different ideas and different
ways of working and I think it's a be
limiting to pick a winner at this point
but I do I have mote most of my promise
in ETCs I would say




**Christian Seberino:**
 okay okay do you
think that the etc' attracts a certain
political bent and the ETH attracts a
different political bent and




**Anthony:**
 most
definitely especially pokes the fork
okay you know I feel like etherium
before the fork was a bit different than
after okay
far more libertarian and but some
attracts us some more extreme because
really a theorem class I got its core
it's less extreme you know it's just it
is what it is and it runs and you don't
modify it here yeah that's right 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah
you know crypto is starting to get
popular and be more mainstream when
they're like there's actually they're
not people in my network but they're
people I know that are pretty like
socialists communists that are getting
into crypto it's like they don't even
understand it's just such an oxime or
it's such a crazy oxymoron to me that
they're getting into it yeah do you
understand like how in our coat appleis
this is like it's literally the opposite
of everything you believe in like write
whatever helps them get into a lot
authoritarian mindset I'm all for it
works out that way 



**Anthony:**
I think it's a great
way to for you know cuz it's again like
et Cie is just it runs how to run so
it's just for you can basically you can
really I would say projects almost any
ideology you want onto it because you
just have to you know work within the
rules of it yeah I wanted to be more
socialist you can have a group of people
that all decide to pull their EDC into a
contract and the contract fairly
distributes out the value 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yep perfect I
hope they do that



**Christian Seberino:**
 oh that's an interest
that's an interesting coming you're
saying every week everybody could build
whatever their little utopia is on top
of et si that et si doesn't necessarily
force you into a certain philosophy so
that kind of like that that's good yeah




**Carlo Vicari:**
yep that's true that's true I'll try and
relay that to some of them whoever
whoever they are but um where do you uh
where do you see it to see going or
where we where do you see it going
where'd you learn to like like it to go
what are some things you'd like to see
in the future the near future distant
future your your 3,000 kind of stuff 




**Anthony:**
I
would definitely like to see you know a
lot more I guess corporate interests
because ultimately that's what moves the
needle on these things but I don't know
I don't have any specific ideas on where
I want et Cie to go other than I know I
just want et Cie to remain how it is and
then everything else can build on top of
it so I wanted to remain immutable and I
would ideally like it to become even
more decentralized by having a you know
maybe more modeling poles more evenly
distributed that type of thing 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I
saw some interesting talk in reference
to some smart pool smart mining pool
talk that was going on in the slack I
kind of check up on that again I don't
know if you guys saw some of that
conversation going on between some of
the miners 




**Christian Seberino:**
no but I'd love to have a
show that talks about smart pool cuz
that sounds like a problem
idea 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah that's uh that's on the list
we'll try to get that together for for
next week but um yeah so that was some
smart pool discussion that was going on
there and we could definitely work on
having some of those guys on have you
ever done any mining uh anything like
that 





**Anthony:**
yeah I've done a little bit of
mining I don't know if I've mined DTC I
have mines aetherium though yeah I
understand if you want to kick me off
that chat now 


**Carlo Vicari:**
cool and this was guessing
like back last year you're still still
got something turning away
uh 



**Anthony:**
no not now I mean it's summer so it's
hot yeah and it's not uh it's probably
not financially worth it but yeah back
when theorem was maybe like around you
know nandi sense to to a dollar I was uh
mining some and it was great to mine in
the winter because it would you know
help make the house a little warmer




**Carlo Vicari:**
right yeah you're making money and
making it warmer so that works 




**Anthony:**
yeah but
then it but then it went into summer and
then it was just a bit more of a
suffering 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah then it's just hot yeah
no go ahead Christian 


**Christian Seberino:**
no I know I was I
was just gonna say I've I know that
don't panic burns says he's a big miner
and he was saying how great it is so I
was just thought maybe you would agree
and you be through all about trying to
buy as many rigs as you can 



**Carlo Vicari:**
now MINEERS
tough businessman what uh what did you
haven't you had like one little rig just
kind of running Renick plugging away or
you had like a whole set up





**Anthony:**
 one computer
that I wasn't I built it for gaming and
then I wasn't really using it much and
so I bought a new graphics card and use
that I think it paid for the graphics
part card had paid for itself about
twice over and actually probably now is
paid for itself for ridiculous amounts
of times over 





**Christian Seberino:**
okay that's the way don't
panic burns talks okay so if it pays for
itself then isn't logically you want to
go out and buy as many GPUs as pcs as
you can then
right you're just it's making money why
are you fine I think it good sorry now
you go no you you had to get you ate
didn't you just make the comment that
it's not profitable or it's it's
difficult so that but you just said it
paid for itself so I'm confused






**Anthony:**
um so I guess so for like for me or
don't panic burns I guess it depends on
your mindset for it so though I don't
know how large of a minor don't panic
burns is but uh if you want to make some
money in the short term mining then yeah
you uh you basically just need to build
out as many machines as possible and let
them run and sell it sell off your your
gains as soon as possible to you know
because you've invested a lot in
hardware you've got a lot of sunk costs
and hardware and electricity and all
that but yeah for for me as just a small
minor one time you know I would just
hold it because that was my that was my
plan anyway
and back then too it was also easier to
make a profit so back then even though I
didn't sell the etherium I was getting
after the graphics card and the
electricity I was still making back more
than it's worth
okay it's just been held the etherium
for a long time after that




**Christian Seberino:**
 which was a
good thing depending on when you started
it 



**Anthony:**
it can be a good thing if the market
goes up it could be a bad thing for you
though 




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah but I'm saying has anybody
has anybody lost money if they if they
sell their gains right away 




**Anthony:**
no I think
still now you would maybe depending on
how much your electricity costs you
probably not positive I mean I haven't
looked at mining in a while but okay





**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah remember like the reason that
his graphics card was paid for so many
times over is because everything went up
like 20 X if you have like okay let's
see let's say you had a steady market
and aetherium hovered at $10 for a year
you could be mining at a loss
potentially but you're just kind of
counting on tokens that you
and don't use for tank electricity
you're coming over go up yeah at the
time he wasn't necessarily aware it
would pay for itself 10 times over oh




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah that's what I was getting you 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah
which which is why you don't scale up
because let's say you scale up and you
spend like 50k on money here or a
hundred K and then aetherium went from
fifteen dollars to seven which it did
mm-hmm you're out you're out quite a bit
of money okay and you've got a name
you've got an angry girlfriend or a
Negri somebody's angry




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah Carlo cleared up he said it better
than I I was able to say yes I was I was
trying to ask if if the price is steady
if you could still get ahead but you're
it sounds like you the appreciation is
necessary for you 






**Carlo Vicari:**
I think not I yes not
entirely but for you to for you to be
ahead when all things being equal and
the hash rate is high and everything's
kind of an equilibrium it's a lot of
work to break-even is that correct
Anthony






**Anthony:**
 yeah pretty much it also depends
a lot on your locality so like if you're
mining in China or something or
somewhere where your electricity is
super cheap then you have a much better
chance than if you're mining somewhere
where electricity is very expensive
right right I think money is always
profitable for whoever's participating
because otherwise they wouldn't
participate ideally it's just not it
wouldn't be so profitable it would be
like you know you'd be making ten or
twenty percent on your investment 



**Christian Seberino:**
I see
so we should all GUP we should all
Google for like if I don't know if they
have these websites that compare the
price of energy in various cities see
where you are on the list 



**Anthony:**
oh yeah they
have a bunch of mining calculators and
you could put in your kilowatt hour
costs and stuff and it'll tell you what
you could expect to make 


**Christian Seberino:**
I see 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah
there's even what's that website what
should I mine or something like that



**Christian Seberino:**
never heard of it 




**Anthony:**
yeah I think so yeah
just live in mining pools where they
switch like you could it'll mind one
coin one day and another coin another
day and you get paid in Bitcoin




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah I see yeah serious business
for sure
but I know 




**Christian Seberino:**
Anthony why don't you cut
share kind of what you're working on now
and so the audience could learn about
that 



**Anthony:**
sure so I guess right now and like
it's nowhere near done because I'm still
learning of sharp but I wanted to write
a little website that basically does a
account monitoring monitoring so
basically you could put in your
addresses and whenever you know money is
deposited or withdrawn
you get a little email because one of
the things that's important sometimes
especially if there is a hack or
something is the timing of it like if
you know you've got if so like if you've
got hacked and somebody's stolen your
etherium classic and they sent it to an
exchange or something to kind of mix the
coins around or whatever you do have a
short short window of you know maybe 10
to 15 minutes to contact somebody at
that exchange okay but if you don't know
that that's happened and you find out an
hour later especially with the block
times on a theorem and a theorem classic
you would just you be pretty much out of
luck



**Christian Seberino:**
 so wait this is interesting so
exchanges they could what would they do
then if you call them and also you have
to get somebody on the phone but what
could they do you 






**Anthony:**
know they could
ideally freeze the funds okay because
you would want to because then this way
they could they could stop the funds
from being moved and so I mean that it
still affects whether or not you can
actually get it back because then how do
you know who's the attacker and who's
the real person 




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah yeah thanks
question 



**Anthony:**
I I did have an idea on how to
do that but I I need to I would need to
implement it in solidity I would
actually really like to see you know a
kind of second factor type of
authentication so like if I create an
account then I might want to be able to
create a little hash that proves that I
own that
so maybe I have another secret so on top
of my private key I would have another
key that just proves that I am the
legitimate owner of the account so even
if somebody stole my private key you
wouldn't have my other key that says
that I own that account okay so I'm
thinking of some ways to do that 



**Christian Seberino:**
you
know you just gave me an idea about some
mischief though Anthony what if you are
a aboveboard legitimate cerium classic
user that had an account on an exchange
and you were moving funds and then I
could just mess with you I could call
him up and say hey freeze Anthony's
funds he's stealing from me just that
mess you up for fun I wouldn't do that
but yeah that's that's the dark side
being able to call up and freeze
accounts 




**Anthony:**
well yeah but then you you
still have to prove ownership you you
can't just call and say you own my
account you need the private key you
need to sign another message saying I
Christian Severino own okay account 





**Christian Seberino:**
okay
but I mean what would they would they
freeze it before they got that
information so yeah I mean you because
you can't you can't do all that in 15
minutes see what I'm saying so I could I
could at least slow you down for an hour
until the whole mess gets cleared up





**Anthony:**
yeah you know I mean they could freeze
it though anyway so they just need to
freeze it from when I say freeze I mean
freeze it from leaving the exchange yeah
yeah so I mean while they have to figure
out you know who was the legitimate
owner that that's all well and good just
you know just make sure that the funds
don't go somewhere else 




**Christian Seberino:**
and so can you
make smart contracts with F sharp 




**Anthony:**
I
don't think there's any frameworks to
make smart contracts with F sharp and it
would be a whole bunch of that would be
crazy
no I'm your serpent 


**Christian Seberino:**
I see 



**Carlo Vicari:**
why hey why
would it maybe this is gonna go down a
huge rabbit hole why would it be so
crazy and F sharp print for anybody
listening that's curious just a
complicated language to do it 




**Christian Seberino:**
in try to
compile I think 



**Anthony:**
yeah it's the compiler
there's no compiler for F sharp to
solidity the ways you would do it is uh
you would either sew a theorem runs the
EVM uh-huh
that's its little
it's basically like a computer or it's a
representation of a computer and so if
you were to do it enough sharp you would
have one of two options you could either
compile down to EVM code so you have to
write a compiler that goes from F sharp
to EVM which none exists actually have
to create a transpiler that would maybe
take F sharp code and sort of translate
it into either solidity or serpents or
something and then compiled that down to
EVM code the transpiler would actually
be easier but I mean both are fairly
complex things to do 





**Carlo Vicari:**
sounds like this
would be a mess




**Anthony:**
 but it depends also on
what you do like it's not my that
wouldn't be my forte anyway 



**Carlo Vicari:**
gotcha
gotcha gotcha yeah so what are what are
some things you'd like to do on et3
potentially 



**Anthony:**
those are the two things I
would really like to do I don't know
eventually I would love to see like etcb
as my job or something but that's a long
way off 





**Christian Seberino:**
well you mean you you'd like a
job where you were developing for etc'
full-time is that what you mean 




**Anthony:**
yeah EGC
or you know just block chains in general
I just like the technology but but yeah
I don't know a long term I think I think
those two things the the website and a
sort of second authentication would be
great to have for etc' and you know for
various block chains in general 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I
think I get we're saying and well not
maybe not some things you'd like to you
specifically like to do with DTC what
are some things you'd like to see from
the community in reference dtc that
you're not seeing here that's a CTC what
are some yeah from the community at
large and also what are some things
you'd like to see from the blockchain
community in general that know like what
do you think that people aren't tackling
properly in blockchain or cryptocurrency
space that you think they should tackle
maybe these just some things we could
you know put up put on a little little
notepad and get to work on




**Anthony:**
yes so I think one of the biggest things
that I would absolutely love to see any
TC is a more declarative non Turing
complete programming language because
there's a whole class of bugs and errors
several classes of bugs and errors that
occur simply because you're programming
in this very complex term complete
language where you don't know how it's
going to execute down each and every
path right right and so like I would
like to see a more direct language that
you know just has very it's a very it's
almost and Charles husk husking
Hoskinson is yeah yeah he he's work he's
working on I know he's working on some
of those things I don't know if he's
working on a non Turing complete
language but he's definitely you know
working on functional languages that
will hopefully do some of the things
that you know I hope to see where you
just have a lot more safety and a lot
more guarantees and you can kind of
prove that things are going to work and
at least aren't going to have these
types of bugs




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah it's a big it's a big
goal it's a big goal for her 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah with
your you said you liked haskell so i
could i think he's doing some work with
haskell so who knows what will come down
the pike there might be some something a
haskell like language that you could use
in the near future first of all




**Anthony:**
 yeah
yeah haskell and i think i they're
working on scala which is uh would be
similar 



**Christian Seberino:**
well they're they're
implementing their their client but not
necessarily i don't know if they're
making a smart contract language that's
like Scala oh




**Anthony:**
 yeah yeah you're right it
is uh the client that's still good
though it's still uh very beneficial



**Carlo Vicari:**
greed so what are some things from not
just et Cie but from the blockchain
cryptocurrency community at large that
you don't think they're doing properly
that if you could you know wave a magic
wand and what would you do what do you
think



**Anthony:**
I would I would love to see a better way
for you know people to get their money
back if it's stolen in a hack because
right now there doesn't seem to be much
you know I think one of the things too
that makes it difficult is that you know
exchanges just they don't want to deal
they don't seem to want to deal with
that problem like right now if you're if
you get your fun stolen the exchanges
don't seem to want to try too hard sit
like they'll freeze the funds and they
won't let them go anywhere but you know
they they don't want to be and I can't
even blame them that but they don't want
to be you know the group that figures
out who this money goes to yeah the I
don't even know how you would solve it
but yeah if I could wave a magic wand I
would love to see that 





**Christian Seberino:**
oh Anthony can I
say something about that so it's
interesting that you brought that up so
I have I have an experience about that
this is a real pressing problem with me
that speaks to that so I have a business
and I have somebody sending me needs to
send me money from Europe and every time
they try to wire there's issues
apparently America uses a different
routing number than the rest of the
world
thanks but but it anyways and so the the
thought always comes up well hey why
don't we just use Bitcoin or a
cryptocurrency right and but I am always
hesitant because you know if I make a
little mistake right I don't want to
vaporize you know a couple thousand
dollars but then I'm supposed to be a
blockchain enthusiast so that's kind of
ironic you know so basically what I'm
Bobby soon what obviously I'm trying to
I want which might be impossible is I
want all the libertarian benefits but
still have the the protection that's
that's what we all want and I think that
you're speaking to that so I don't know
what would you do in that situation




**Anthony:**
well for anybody I would buy a hardware
while it you just you should just get
one and that uh 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah everyone



**Anthony:**
 should
have a hardware wallet protection





**Carlo Vicari:**
 green



**Christian Seberino:**
I mean I I like it that it's it's it's
libertarian and we're all in control of
our funds but the thought of vaporizing
five
thousand dollars because of some little
you know you just gotta just really
you're just Drake's on my nerves 



**Carlo Vicari:**
you
gotta trust that copy/paste button man
you don't trust that button you're gonna
have problems





**Anthony:**
 yeah you just got a double
check I do it every time I read the
first four characters and less four
characters of any address that I'm
sending to those match 




**Christian Seberino:**
so how would I
would that like could you could could I
could I could you somebody email a
hardware wallet to Europe and then they
they could put it on an email it send it
back or how could how would our Hardware
wallet solve this issue
oh





**Carlo Vicari:**
 so I think he's just talking about
security in general correct 





**Anthony:**
yeah in
general so wouldn't solve a copy-paste
issue the copy-paste you probably just
want to do two transactions make the
first one for a really small amounts and
then do the second one 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah yeah that
was the idea that we had that was the
best idea so far just do it in pieces
yeah 




**Anthony:**
so one of the nice things and I
think he probably could do something
with theorem class of contracts so I
know it's an unpopular opinion but I
like some of the ideas like in a non
cryptocurrency blockchains like ripple
and one of the fun things about ripple
is that if you make a typo and that
address doesn't exist it's just not
gonna go through you're going to say
this is an invalid address and I think
that's you know that that's pretty great
like I would actually just like to see a
wallet that won't transfer funds unless
it sees money or transactions in that
wallet previously 





**Christian Seberino:**
yeah that's a good
idea that would be at the beginning of a
couple of good checks that would be easy
to do like so I could make a smart
contract solidity contract that checks
to make sure that the balance is greater
than zero of the account that I'm
sending to and it wouldn't send it yeah
I could see things people could write
stuff like that that's a good idea





**Anthony:**
 yeah
basically or even if it just popped up a
warning like if I went to you know my
ether wallet in the wall I went to send
some money and
it would just then go check it would say
there's never been a transaction so this
wallet are you sure you want to send it
here
oh





**Christian Seberino:**
 yeah that's yeah 





**Anthony:**
you would have to I
mean some people still click OK and
don't read the message but right right





**Christian Seberino:**
yeah this is the same exact issue right
with a browser where it says you know
there's a problem with the SSL
certificate and a lot of people just
ignore it right but the smart people
look into it further so some people
don't care about security so but yeah at
least there'd be the option of doing
your due diligence 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah I think
good no I was just gonna say that I
think that's true not to pigeonhole
yourself and just to think inside your
ecosystem because I do think as much as
people like to hate on like he said
ripple and other chains like stellar and
there's a lot of different block chains
and communities that are doing lots of
cool stuff and I'd like to learn from
them as much as possible I agree 





**Anthony:**
yeah
there's a ton of good ideas out there so
it's just not worth it's not worth like
picking just one idea and saying no this
is the idea right that's right that's
just ideology




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah agreed
okay so that's an interesting one from
ripple what other kind of interesting
type ideas like that do you think that
other chains are doing oh 



**Anthony:**
sorry uh for
sex like other I like 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah like you
brought up a good ripple example are
there any other chains that are doing
interesting user experience ideas you
know stuff something similar stuff like
that kind of maybe things that are easy
to implement that you know



**Christian Seberino:**
 something
you'd want to see on et Cie that other
yeah other blockchain systems might have




**Carlo Vicari:**
yes actually




**Anthony:**
kind of related to that because I do
think a lot of the problems with block
chains that you know the main problem of
blockchain tries to solve is governance
and so similar to ripples idea of
governments which is you have you know
nobody's doing work to prove that
they're valid they just have whitelist
and they say these P
are valid and they're gonna stay valid
as long as they validate most of their
transactions how everybody else does
mm-hm and so there's other much smaller
block change that do something like that
they kind of combine both of those ideas
so there's one called Golding



**Carlo Vicari:**
 gulden
yeah I know those good 



**Anthony:**
yeah yeah I just
think it's really neat that they have
you know they have their proof of work
but then they have another group that
also gives some gifts does some of the
validation as well because it uh it
keeps it just from you know proof of
work miners taking over which seems like
it'll happen more and more you know
because the bigger of a miner you are
the more funds you're gonna make the
more funds you're gonna make the more
you can reinvest the more hazard you can
take basically 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yep yep no I know what
you're saying I think an interesting
thing about the golden as well as I
think it can be accepted anywhere that
Bitcoin is accept it as well there's
something they have hooked in there that
it makes that possible you know that one




**Anthony:**
oh really it says uh atomic swaps




**Carlo Vicari:**
 I
don't know what it is exactly I just
know a little bit about it but I know it
was uh it was into some interesting
stuff they had going on and from my
understanding they can be accepted
anywhere that that bitcoin is accepted





**Anthony:**
oh that's cool I think I saw something
like that I just didn't I might have
just glanced over it but yeah that's
really it's really neat if that's the
case because bitcoin is the de facto
cryptocurrency right now it'll
eventually be a theorem classic 





**Carlo Vicari:**
agree
agree so okay so that's that's so you
got rippled some interesting stuff from
golden what else do you see out there
that you think is interesting 





**Anthony:**
oh let me
see what you think for a sec 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah just
go to just go to coin Marquis Catholic
go through the list I guess 




**Anthony:**
yeah uh I
don't know I I like Mon arrow I think
it's really interesting to have a crypto
currencies where other people can't see
your transactions because that's kind of
like real life cash where you know it's
only but it's between you and whoever
you're sending 





**Carlo Vicari:**
your funds you don't know
you don't know where the cash



**Anthony:**
um yeah and and also it's it's also you
know it's like a bank account to like
you know right now with the fear in
classic if I send money anywhere and
somebody knows my address they know
every place I've ever sent money to like
it's 



**Carlo Vicari:**
uh kind of crazier than





**Anthony:**
 much so
yeah so you know they are I think maybe
I'm getting it wrong but sorbus maybe or
or somebody on slack was talking about
adding ZK snarks I think would be which
would be interesting which is different
from on arrow but uh 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah I think
that would be pretty wild if we got that
going yeah okay cool so we got some
ripple stuff gaulden ZK snarks thing
which was brought up I forgot the EC IP
name will have to post that for anybody
listening will put the EC EC IP in the
description below for the ZK snarks
proposal so you guys could check it out
if you're interested
let's go through I'm actually gonna pull
up coin captain do some stuff and I'm
thinking 



**Anthony:**
I've got a lot of opinions on a
lot of cryptocurrency 





**Carlo Vicari:**
okay now keep it
going then keep it going ZK snarks like
I like that ZK snarks functionally do
the same thing Mon arrow does which is
allow for people to have private
transactions if they so choose the one
the couple problems I have with ZK
snarks though is are that uh one there's
there's kind of so ZK snarks is very new
so the math that protects DK snarks even
though it's far beyond me and I can't
understand it I know it hasn't existed
that long and whenever you have a
cryptography type math that hasn't
existed that long it can be mmm it's
just be conscious of because it means
that there might be some issues with it
like even though we all and I mean we
depend on it every day even right now
talking on hangouts I'm depending on SSL
encryption or I might be depending on
sha-256 but there's no proof that though
that they're correct it's just that
they've tried attacking it every way
they can think of for a couple decades
now and there's no and this is the best
implementation so far
you know of sha hashes or other things
that that they can get and you know you
just you think it's secure at that point


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah no I know what you mean 




**Anthony:**
the things
about CK start 





**Carlo Vicari:**
oh you know Anthony I'm
sure you've heard about this one had
someone there they found a bug in the
code and someone was just like creating
see coin out of thin air actually not
easy cash for anybody gonna confuse it
exactly the point
yeah but they actually development team
and the team members from Zee coin they
actually caught the bug they found out
exactly how many were created and then
they burned that amount that were
created from their own fund so they
corrected everything that occurred it
Wow 







**Christian Seberino:**
yeah energy Z cash ZEECOIN 




**Carlo Vicari:**
Z cash uses some zero
cash protocol and Zee Moines uses zero
coin 



**Christian Seberino:**
I see



**Carlo Vicari:**
similar but more advanced implementation
I believe and but yeah so shut out the Z
coin that took care of that very
professionally did you hear about that
place ago uh 





**Anthony:**
no I didn't hear about that
one I mean I know I've heard that that's
happened in other situations too but ya
know that's really great that they went
in at least burned their own coins but
yeah that's also one of the does equine
doozy case norsu do they do something
else





**Carlo Vicari:**
it's it's like a zero knowledge thing
but it's not exactly I don't know this
is stuff that's beyond my education
level which is but it's kind of beyond
me yeah I just think it was great the
way they handled the extra coin creation
thing 





**Anthony:**
no that's a great way to handle it
the only problem is eventually you run
out of coins that you covered




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yes that
is truly so hopefully they took care of
that completely 




**Anthony:**
yeah yeah that's uh
that's actually what ZK snarks there -
sorry




**Christian Seberino:**
 I was going to say the the during
that reminds me of when there was the
flash crash for ETH and I believe
coinbase was trying to reimburse people
that lost money and I mean God
lesson for wanting to help out but that
that could get really expensive if every
time there's a dip in the price they're
just gonna compensate all the coinbase
users with more eth from their own piggy
bank 




**Anthony:**
oh yeah I think they're
implementing safety guards for that now
to help protect against flash crashes
because I think they just didn't have it
have any applet





**Carlo Vicari:**
 that got ugly pretty
quick and then and then it got much
better very quickly as well 





**Anthony:**
yes yeah and
all of you seconds a milliseconds
probably 




**Carlo Vicari:**
not can you believe that





**Anthony:**
 yeah
that's what happens when you have
somebody who has a ton of aetherium that
they bought a long time ago and and no
no knowledge of what what they're what
they're doing there 






**Christian Seberino:**
so for people that
don't know flash crashes when you have
all these computer systems set to
automatically sell and then they all go
off because of some event and then it be
sets off a chain reaction right which
leads to a disaster the price crash 




**Anthony:**
yeah




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah and I think I think people yeah
when as low as like 17 cents or
something ridiculous for it 



**Anthony:**
yeah people
picked up some it's here I'm very cheap
the thing I went down as low as 10 cents
after I heard about that I went and made
sure that I had up put in some orders
for a dollar 





**Christian Seberino:**
oh you can stop even
waiting there now that's an interesting
it yeah so when if there's another flash
crash you automatically picked up on I
like that I should do that






**Anthony:**
 yeah cuz it's
not a no now if everybody does it
because it wasn't on coinbase proper it
was on a GTX which is their exchange so
you can do things like that like say
yeah it's an order for this price




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah
but maybe week we can also put a link to
some info on what happened there in the
description as well
so we got a couple links to post in
there the EC IP some info on the flash
crash and yeah that that was a pretty
interesting one so it
any other chain ideas you think we could
bring up or implement or talk about the
community maybe get going 




**Anthony:**
um no not
really I mean those are those are the
main ones that I that I would look
things that I would like to see if I had
like a magic wand and I'm limited funds
in time




**Carlo Vicari:**
 okay cool cool I think that that
actually works out because we're coming
to a close on the the show as well and
just any last notes you want to leave
for anybody listening out there anything
you want to let them know about or
anything you want maybe you can do a
shameless plug if you're interested
whatever whatever you want to do we
appreciate you coming on the show so
you've got this you think you've got the
stage



**Anthony:**
 thanks for having me no shameless
plugs just if anybody's listening and
you see anybody message you about a hack
on any part of anywhere related to
aetherium or theorem classic or any
other blockchain do not let them I know
it's hard when people are new so
probably nobody very new is listening to
this but you don't have to panic even so
even in the worst case like if there was
a major issue and somebody found an
exploit in a theory I'm at a theorem
classic and hackers were able to
immediately change everything it doesn't
it's not like it's irreversible you
would just pick a point in time where
everything you know was good and you
would jump back to that point mm-hmm you
know if anybody actually exploited the
underlying chain and



**Carlo Vicari:**
 if it got that bad



**Anthony:**
yeah so there's so for a lot of things
there's no reason to panic and I mean if
there is an issue you're going to see
tons of people talking about it so yeah
that's for any of the more dishonest
people out there that join my slack our
slack and decide to try and attack the
users I absolutely hate you you are the
worst just briefly yeah I don't I don't
believe you even are a very good
programmer if you do that I think you're
just somebody who decides to you know
you make money violating
social contracts and scamming people and
I think that's absolutely awful




**Christian Seberino:**
poisoning the well it doesn't for
everybody




**Carlo Vicari**:
yeah I agree yeah yeah okay so I agree
we left off with some good security
stuff and some good bashing of the
horrible people out there but still
horrible people are gonna be horrible
guys so anybody out there with security
security first and Anthony thanks for
joining us and we'd love to have you on
again sometime


**Anthony:**
 sure let me know I really
enjoyed this 



**Carlo Vicari:**
awesome okay so everybody
listening thanks for tuning in and we'll
catch up with you guys later next week
thanks so much take
[Music]



**Christian Seberino:**
if you are passionate about anything
related to aetherium classic
