# Let's Talk ETC: Investors Featuring Jeriaska (Jerry J.)
Carlo Vicari:
hi everyone and thank you for tuning in
you're listening to episode 5 of let's
talk ET cie i'm your host karlovy along
with my co-host dr. Christian submarino
I want to thank the ET cie devs
investors nurse users and other
community members for another great week
for those of you watching on YouTube the
ET cie newsletter that was just released
today will be in the description below
so that's anyone watching on YouTube you
can find the link to that newsletter
also in this newsletter we've got really
big news uh now I don't have all the
details yet but Charles Hoskinson and I
ohk are bringing a new team on board and
committing them to etherium classic the
team is called the girl geek team
they're named after Alexander girl geek
who is a mathematician that became a
leading figure in the creation of modern
algebraic geometry I'll have more
details on this as soon as I'm gonna you
know I'm going to be introducing them
the whole team to the cold community
pretty soon so as soon as I have all the
details i'll definitely be letting you
guys know also if you guys have cool
ideas about how the community can
receive updates from the devs please let
me know either on reddit or on slack or
you know however you can let us know
even in the youtube comments below and
I'll try to communicate that with the
dev team and with other people involved
so that we can get some really cool
updating features for what these guys
are up to and just everything that
they're going to be contributing towards
the etherium classic platform so also we
have the monetary policy by snap-roll
which is still in there for anyone who
wants to check that out um there's
another reminder in there about the et
Cie event in London which has been
organized by dr. avatar Sarah it's going
to be taking place next week on December
13th at 6pm I'm actually going to be
over there guys so I'm gonna do my best
to do a live broadcast from that event
I'll let you guys know whether that how
that goes and i'll give you more details
about that later so check out the
newsletter for details on the
then there's a Twitter post from avatar
and a link to the meetup group for all
the details that concern that event also
there's an article a titled Fermat
distributed governance model by Luis
Molina and we have another article from
dr. submarino about interplanetary file
systems ipf s for any of you guys that
are interested in that so um yeah very
cool stuff especially the new team
joining the project now on to the main
focus of the show tonight we have a
community member from the et Cie
investment community that's going to be
joining us we have a really great guest
he's extremely knowledgeable and has
provided a ton of great insight on slack
many many many times he's also got some
news for us about the recent meet up
with Barry Silbert and digital currency
group special guests with us tonight
Jerry Jerry how are you thanks for
coming on



Jerry:
 I'm good Carla thing


Carlo Vicari:
 excellent
excellent so um you know something we've
been doing just for people when it's
their first time on the show we kind of
just get a you know kind of their
background how they got into blockchain
and what interest them in ETC and stuff
like that so uh you know I guess what
kind of got you into block chain and
kind of that whole history and stuff
like that just so the audience you know
kind of gets to know you and stuff like
that and maybe in the future we'll we'd
love to have you back on again


Jerry:
 um yeah
thanks I mean that I started investing
in Bitcoin around 2015 and it was really
fortunate timing because bitcoin was
kind of at the nadir of its popularity
at that time but I became really
interested in YouTube videos that I
found online that talked about the kinds
of unique political properties of the
governance model of the Bitcoin
blockchain so I'm guessing that probably
both you guys are familiar with the
movies that I were watching I saw videos
by andreas Antonopoulos
on you Erik Voorhees I think those were
the most influential have you both
checked out any of those on YouTube



Carlo Vicari:
definitely


Christian Seberino:
 yeah



Jerry:
 so from an intellectual
standpoint I found that really
fascinating as for blockchain you know
it's a confluence of various areas the
technology is interesting from a
historical perspective it's fascinating
of course the finance is very
interesting so it just provides a lot of
food for thought and that was the
primary motivation in my participating
as an investor and because i got in at
the right moment i was able to use the
profits from my bitcoin investment to
then invest in athyrium which I've found
to be a really fascinating technology
the idea of having smart contracts and
these these centralized organizations
around the time of the Dow I started
feeling weary about the centralization
of the etherium governance model and I
was really influenced to a degree by
what I read on Barry Silbert feed so
that's part of what got me interested in
athyrium classic from an investor's
standpoint and it was a really good
experience for me to be able to see
Barry Silbert and melton dem roars a
digital currency group in person at this
meetup in Singapore and I found it
really 


Carlo Vicari:
that's awesome and yes I'm sorry
I could take you sorry Bennett 



Jerry:
known I
was just saying that you know you go on
youtube and you have access to all these
incredibly fascinating videos and I'm
really be interested in hearing what
kinds of talks or presentations or
content you found online that that
you've felt to be
inspiring or gave you kind of a better
understanding of the unique neat
uniqueness of blockchain technology I
find that in person when I attend
meetups for Bitcoin or athyrium that it
can tend to be disappointing if I
compare it with you know the level of
engagement that I have when listening to
you know andreas on a YouTube video but
this particular meet up I found to be
really engaging and if you're in Asia or
if you're in Southeast Asia you know you
should really check out Singapore it's a
very interesting hub for financial
technology and zach has this blockchain
startup Singapore meet up there it's
really worth attending and I think this
because of the featured speakers this
particular event I just found it very
rewarding



Carlo Vicari:
 how absolutely 


Christian Seberino:
like a
glycation how do you like what's your
how do you like helping people what do
you help people within the community


Jerry:
 oh
hey Kristin well I like that athyrium
classic is an open platform so what I
like to do is volunteer my time to reach
out to other investors and see if maybe
we can come to some consensus on our
objectives as a group because in my view
athyrium classic is composed of three
camps primarily three constituencies
that have differing objectives and it's
very natural that they should have
differing objectives those groups being
the minors the developers and investors
so I think in order to decentralize the
platform and to negotiate about what we
want to see in upcoming ec IPS it's
really our response
that we convene among ourselves get some
consensus about what our objectives are
and then negotiate with the other
constituencies going forward instead of
engaging in coercion or ad hominem
attacks to get our way


Christian Seberino:
 okay at one
hundred percent you also see yourself as
trying to bring in more capital into the
community and grow the pie is that kind
of trying to convince people to invest
in epc 


Jerry:
well something that I feel I'm
capable of doing is arguing against
people who I feel are attempting to
sabotage investor confidence I have a
degree of confidence in a theorem
classic as a long-term store of value so
when I see arguments being made that I
view as being irrational or illogical
because these are happening on social
networks that are interactive I can you
know reply to certain statements that
are being made so that's a way where I
as an investor can help in protecting
the market value of etherium classic is
right don't favor of its long term usage


Christian Seberino:
ok so you don't work with Barry Silbert
but you just have a high regard for him
and you've met him as you said


Jerry:
 nominated
recording 



Christian Seberino:
ok yeah I had a question for
people that aren't big investors that
are listening so it might seem like this
black magic and mysterious thing that
you guys do and I remember personally
Barry Silbert started getting bullish on
et Cie and he came made a big investment
and he was one of the early proponents
of it and I remember thinking you know
that's impressive that he's sticking his
neck out like that with his money and
every right so that he's so confident
and he I guess he has his method of
analyses
and but uh I don't know if everybody
would have the confidence to stick their
neck out with the new technology like he
did can you say something about how you
guys operate why you can be so confident
with my money that way



Jerry:
 well again I'm an
independent party I'm part of the
etherium classic community and I'm
volunteering my time as an investor to
put out information that I believe is
backed up by reason and evidence I don't
have the credentials that Barry Silbert
and melt and Emerson the digital
currency group have but I think that it
is useful for me to appear on this
podcast in a way in order to invite
other people who might be reticent who
might feel like a will who am I to
participant you know


Carlo Vicari:
 uh for anybody
listening out there I've seen Jerry uh
you know speak on numerous occasions on
slack you know you're not Twitter on
multiple different channels and his
insight is always awesome and his
rebuttals are always great so I no slack
they get deleted after 10,000 messages i
wish i didn't because there's a lot of
great ones in there you know 


Christian Seberino:
yes I
understand what you're saying so you
can't speak for Barry you have your
urine independent as you said but still
you analyze the technology and you were
able to get yourself to a point where
you were confident enough to invest and
that the investing I think might be
scary for a lot of people so



Jerry:
 yeah you
know you don't need to necessarily
invest monetarily if you feel that
you're not in a position to do that you
can always invest your time and energy
right if if you like the ideology of
etherium classic you can invest in doing
research and then posting a blog or you
can invest in doing an interview with
someone in the community or if you have
an arts background you know you can put
new ideas for logos or marketing
material or or some kind of documentary
out there I mean yes really and
Ben platform in the sense of open source
where it's not a kind of closed
proprietary corporate environment it's
something where you know on the order of
Wikipedia anyone can come forward as
long as what they're bringing is deemed
by the community to be a value you know
you're going to be welcomed especially
at this point because we're so early on
yakin listener in classic it's it's a
fortunate moment and I think that's why
as you were saying Christian then Barry
did stick his neck out because some
people are low risk some people are high
risk I think that digital currency group
likes the idea of getting in on a
certain technology certain
cryptocurrency early in the game if they
are sufficiently convinced that the
fundamentals are there taking those
risks is what separates you from your
competitors right so long as you have
the foresight to see what's going to
happen down the road taking those risks
is what makes the reward possible



Christian Seberino:
 yeah
now that you just I just thought have
another question speaking of the how you
guys operate now as the like you said
you invested in Bitcoin and you know how
every price goes up and down in crypto
currencies how do you guys keep from not
you know raising your blood pressure
checking the price every day and
obsessing over little changes


Carlo Vicari:
 yeah
crypto is a crazy place


Jerry:
 by you guys who
mean the investors in general



Christian Seberino:
 yes yeah



Jerry:
okay um I just want to reiterate that I
don't want to have people misled into
thinking that I'm speaking for digital
currency group you know and I missed
that it so night


Carlo Vicari:
 I think I think
Christian more meant like looking inside
of the implicit because we have a lot of
people that listen on here that are
maybe just devs or maybe just users so
good yeah I guess I think you can at
least give us some insight maybe into
your investment related mind people can
extrapolate their own ideas about how
other investors think you know




Jerry:
 so to me
what made Bitcoin valuable was that it
was a venue for anarcho-capitalism it
was an experimental venue where you
could engage in anarcho-capitalism which
was previously in human history not
possible because within the venue of
bitcoin there's no state intervention of
course outside of it there is the
intervention of the state which is
necessary because we rely upon the state
to protect us against criminality within
the venue when it within the purview of
Bitcoin we can do peer-to-peer
transactions without there being an
authority figure to mediate over them
because you have the blockchain it's a
trust 'less technology and it allows for
people there to transact with each other
without their needing to be an authority
figure other than this public ledger and
this technology that Satoshi created 


Christian Seberino:
yes
and it's it's a work in progress it's an
experiment in progress all this
blockchain technology is fairly new and
when you hear about the block sighs
debate in Bitcoin land or you have a
bunch of money in athyrium and then you
hear about the Dow attack these things
don't make you lose sleep at night
thinking oh my gosh what maybe I got
into earlier they even made a mistake


Jerry:
 no
it's a very good question about blood
pressure there are ways that you can
mitigate against risk right you don't
have to go all in on Bitcoin if you're
kind of an ideological fanatic you might
be influenced to go in that direction
but of course the rejoinder is that if
you put too much of your capital and
Bitcoin at the wrong time you're going
to regret it rightly if you had invested
when bitcoin was at a thousand dollars
several years ago that was obviously bad
timing if you want to preserve your
capital right so you can follow the
markets and you can be as risky as you
feel matches your situation right I mean
you can determine what percentage of
your portfolio you put into a more
stable block chain token like Bitcoin
and what percentage you want to risk on
a more volatile and uncertain blockchain
like a theorem classic so if you feel
that your blood pressure is suffering
your sleep cycles are suffering you can
always mitigate the risk by lowering the
percentage of your involvement in one
given cryptocurrency or another



Christian Seberino:
 yeah I
think I should advise I think that's
good advice overall too if you want to
play it a little bit safe have most of
your money in conservative investments
and then have a small portion that you
say okay this is this is for more higher
risk investments and I can I'm
intentionally willingly consciously
taking risks and I know that this is
higher risk and so I'm okay with that


Carlo Vicari:
 oh
also for everyone listening out there
dollar cost averaging is your friend if
you're if you're just getting into this
and nervous about putting anything in in
any particular place dollar cost
averaging very good


Jerry:
 and you know this is
really about investing in a technology
so if you find that you're making
certain sacrifices that might be the way
that you contribute to the community
right for me I've made profits off of
Bitcoin I've made profits off of
etherium I'm ideologically invested in
athyrium classic so being involved
during this volatile price discovery era
of etherium classics lifecycle you have
to be open because it's so risky to
making sacrifices for the benefit of the
community that's a way in which
investors participate right as one of
these three constituencies that is often
overlooked by the other camps and that's
why like I said it's really important
that we negotiate with each other and
recognize the value of each other's
contributions rather than gate engaging
in short cuts like coercion and and ad
hominem attacks and I find that
investors in particular are kind of easy
targets because it's so easy to dismiss
investors as being concerned with the
monetary gains and not in the more kind
of um you know political or
technological or or the those other
elements that are more idealistic
arguably 


Carlo Vicari:
there's there's definitely a
sweet spot to you know come to terms
with what would work for all three
parties and what would you know make the
best combination of features or the
platform going forward into the future I
think I'm pretty happy with the
direction that things are are going
currently enough yeah I wanted to ask
you whatever oh now go ahead sorry



Jerry:
 a
conservative way of doing it is you
start by investing very little and if
you find that you make gains using the
profits to engage in in riskier
investments that way all you're risking
our your profits right you don't want to
cut into the capital that you have saved
up for you know important other uses I
see 




Christian Seberino:
I might a question since you
mentioned about defending the reputation
of et Cie in the investor community do
you have any funny stories or maybe not
so funny stories of
of kind of verbal altercations or things
you had to do to protect me TC 



Jerry:
well you
know when i mentioned that i viewed
bitcoin as an anarcho-capitalist
platform we I think generally understand
what is meant by capitalism maybe half
the US population believes that
capitalism and property rights are ideal
and allow for a free society maybe how
easy are more skeptical you know and
would prefer you know some other model
but the anarchic part is elusive because
in our vernacular Anarchy has come to
mean no rules so you're setting bonfires
and garbage cans and Europe yeah maybe
not all of your hair and you're tipping
cows over that that's what people think
of in terms of anarchy in the historical
sense anarchy means no rulers so when I
see people kind of asserting their
authority in ways that i think are
irrational or illogical that's when I
tend to kind of fire back or push back
so an example of this that I find
interesting is if you had visited the
New York Times the day before the
presidential election there was a little
widget on the page that showed the
likelihood of one or the other candidate
winning the election yeah did you check
out that that widget 


Christian Seberino:
I heard about it
but I wasn't paying attention to 


Jerry:
the day
before the election the day before the
election when that widget appeared the
New York Times gave Hillary Clinton's
something like ninety percent likelihood
of being the next president of the
United States so if you had gone by the
authority of the New York Times as a
reputable and non biased institution of
intrepid fact gatherers that were never
going to be biased one way or another
and we're simply going to record the
facts they got it
it's astonishingly wrong keep going on
there with confirmation bias so what I
resonate with in terms of
anarcho-capitalism as a concept is the
idea that the blockchain can give you an
accurate view of the world that you can
rely upon in place of a trusted third
party in place of an authority figure
like in this instance the New York Times
widget that just got the facts
phenomenally wrong right and we're
phenomenally biased so basically I don't
come forward trying to convince people
that I have credentials such that they
can turn their skepticism ox I come
forward with ideas information that i
think is backed up by reason and
evidence and that way I can communicate
with people in an even playing field and
we can have a logical reasonable
argument but what I see so much in the
crypto sphere is that there are people
with some degree of authority that is
propped up by some institution or the
other and they put out information that
is or arguments that are irrational or
illogical you know on Twitter or reddit
and the reason they do this is because
they are invested in one cryptocurrency
or another



Carlo Vicari:
yes it it's like they they
might not necessarily be such bias
people but once they're so heavily
invested in something it's hard to turn
off the bias you know 



Jerry:
and they're
relying on the bias just as the New York
Times was relying on the incredulity of
the readers to believe that Hillary
Clinton had this massive you know
advantage that didn't actually exist so
you really need to be skeptical you
really need to rely upon your own
ability to distinguish fact from fiction
and what I like about athyrium classic
is that as an open platform it
lights everyone equally to be involved
and then the community determines who is
contributing and who is looking to
subvert the well-being of the network
and there are definitely many people out
there who hold tokens of other
blockchains who are making a not so
subtle attempt to subvert the etherium
classic community if you jump on the on
the reddit and check out some of the
comments it becomes evident that not
everyone on the reddit once for a fair
and classic to have a bright future that
that's just the inevitable consequences
of a capitalist platform where we have
competition between block chains 


Christian Seberino:
yeah I
could imagine just you got me thinking I
could imagine let's say there was
hypothetically somebody had invested a
hundred thousand or more in athyrium the
forked version I could imagine them
being threatened by you and people like
you investing in a theorem classic and
anything to do with a competitor like if
they're in classic that I could see them
going on the defensive and are the
attack rather and it's nothing personal
against you it's just that they're
feeling threatened right because they
have so much invested in a competitor





Jerry:
yeah there's a lot at stake and you know
I was an ethereal investor so I met a
lot of people during that time I made
friends and so I try to be as you know
cordial and polite as possible when I'm
talking with people who I used to
associate with but there is a lot of
animosity you know back and forth
between a theremin etherion plastic what
made me reluctant to continue supporting
etherium is that like I mentioned a
couple times before I see Bitcoin in its
orientation being this experiment in
anarcho-capitalism where the blockchain
substitutes for the state within state
power and authority within a small
sphere of your life
right you've still got the state to
protect you against criminality outside
of the blockchain within the block chain
there are certain things that you can do
that don't require an authority figure
and that's what makes it a narco
capitalist in its in its flavor here and
so that I view as being very interesting
very valuable and I saw the steps that a
theorem was taken toward greater
centralization and basically
establishing the etherium foundation as
a trusted third party that would mediate
8 and decide which transactions were
valid in which were not that bothered me
in terms of what what I saw as being
truly revolutionary about Satoshi's
vision 


Carlo Vicari:
now that was kinda weird that
what what they did right well not ever
dated


Jerry:
 in etherium value Satoshi's vision
so it's important to recognize that
there's a lot of trash talking about
Satoshi within etherium not everyone but
certain people and so that's where one
can draw the distinction one can say I
support etherium classic because I see
the community taking steps to bring it
in line with the model provided by bit
coin and I see there being too many
steps being taken by athyrium that put
it more in line with legacy financial
institutions and governance models 




Carlo Vicari:
yeah
I thought I have a quick question
actually about especially not just how
the theorem classic TV ated from
athyrium in respect to principles of
immutability but even the steps were
taking with regard to like monetary
policy what were a lot of the be what's
your sentiment or investor sentiment on
how they're handling that with the kind
of ? inflation schedule and stuff like
that is that I've never really had you
know a lengthy discussion with a big
investor about athyrium and stuff like
that 



Jerry:
well again I don't want to position
myself as a big in
bester because I think that um you know




Carlo Vicari:
well no I just my god what you're
thinking or how they're how you like
thinking my general sentiment


Jerry:
 it's a
good question i'm nitpicking a bit
because I don't want for people to turn
off their skepticism when listening to
me so I view myself as a little a little
investor and every man and if I can be
of some use to the community then so can
you it's a very good question to get
back to an earlier question that
christian asked about pushing back
against remarks that I view as illogical
there was a tweet that was posted by a
Cornell professor saying that if
athyrium classic the community and on
paraphrasing were to take the steps to
solve the monetary policy issues that
classic inherited from the Telex design
that this would be a violation of the
etherium contract I don't know if you
see this



Carlo Vicari:
 keke you can't be serious I
honestly think all his posts are satire
III it has to be a joke I know you're
talking about that armin van whatever i
don't know right


Jerry:
 well i don't want to
name names because i'm being critical


Carlo Vicari:
i'll name it i'll give it its that urban
van whatever uh i would say that for
anyone listening i would say that i'd
post his twitter in the description
below but i don't want you guys to blow
it up so i'll leave it at that but yeah
he's got some pretty funny tweets just
to save the least 


Jerry:
the way i like to do
it is that I I like to name names when
I'm congratulating people and I'm a
little more reticent when it comes to
naming names when I think that there are
mistakes that are being made so when I
talk about vitalik my feeling is that he
created a technology that I value and I
want to see that technology preserved
and if the theorem classic is successful
I think metallic as a technologist will
be vindicated I think that he's made
not the best as a politician which is a
pretty good trade-off to make I mean I
would rather be a successful
technologist and a successful politician
and we don't really know we don't really
know how things will play out but
getting back to this tweet it was posted
by a Cornell professor so when you visit
his page you are biased in favor of
believing what he's saying you think
this is an intellectual he's rational
he's you know got the facts and finger
figures at his fingers but I really want
to break down this tweet because he says
that if areum classic fixing this issue
of the inflationary monetary supply
which is in conflict with Satoshi's
original vision of a cryptocurrency that
is deflationary in nature now what does
he mean by it's a violation of the
contract I mean to me it sounds very
reminiscent of what people talk about
when they say the power of the state is
authorized through the social contract
well did you ever sign a contract that I
ever sign a contract no nobody signed
the social contract the social contract
is signed when you are born into a given
nationality and if you don't like the
contract you leave the nation and I
think a similar kind of mindset unless I
mean when he says contract you don't
know what if he's talking about a social
contract a smart contract he



Carlo Vicari:
 well I
think I've read I've read some of these
debates on there where people have
gotten into it with him so what I think
he meant by that is his his big thing
with the etherium classic community what
he likes to bring up um pretty much all
the time is that any change we make if
it's a protocol improvement or a bug fix
he likes to use our art our debate
against us so to speak like because we
had
a difference of opinion with athyrium
reversing a transaction and altering the
blockchain so now he takes that
objection that the etherium classic
community has and he uses it for
anything that ethereal classic does if
we fix a bug if we do a protocol
improvement if we fork to to move away
from the bomb or you know whatever it is
he'll post something and say see they
change the code they're not immutable um
at least that's that's what I think his
main talking point is every single time
that I've seen 


Jerry:
yeah I mean you can argue
that any transactions on the etherium
classic block chain or a violation of
the contract because you know you're
you're adding new blocks to the
blockchain and essentially what it
breaks down to when I view it what I see
it as conspicuously as an argument that
if you are competing with etherium if
etherium classic is is competing with
etherium that's unfair if you update the
platform so that it's in a position
where it's capable of surviving that's
unfair and basically unfair means you
know I have some kind of philosophical
idea of a contract you're violating this
idea that's in my head and therefore
it's it's unacceptable but what it boils
down to is that basically someone with
that degree of status should not be
making irrational irrational illogical
arguments it's up to us as a community
to determine what we view as being the
best governance model for athyrium
classic and the etherium foundation has
their own separate block chain where
they can do a separate instantiation of
a theorem that prizes mutability again
centralization of governance so you know
I I dislike it because if there's
someone with that degree of social
standing who's using irrational
arguments for you know biased reasons I
think it's out of self-interest because
this
holds etherium forked tokens it just
goes back to that earlier example of the
New York Times having this wildly wrong
widget on their page we need to be more
skeptical and we need to look at the
arguments separate from the authority of
the person who is making those arguments



Christian Seberino:
okay yeah I think that's good advice and
that's I'm not a I'm not a professional
trader but I assume that that's probably
a you know fundamental advice to rely on
on facts on data not emotion not name
recognition superstars and and just go
buy everything they say is gospel right


Carlo Vicari:
no Jerry sorry go ahead 



Jerry:
I'm not a
professional trader I'm not an investor
if you're a traitor today you might be
in a theorem classic and tomorrow maybe
you've sold your tokens for a profit so
you're an investor one day and not an
investor the next I'm an enthusiast
Barry Silbert is an expert you know
where we are aligned ideologically as we
both determined that we would buy and
hold our joke in order to create value
so that when the miners mine the
blockchain that they're rewarded with a
token that people have already invested
capital into


Carlo Vicari:
 um Jerry what up pre Dow
pre now fork freedom s pre doubt debacle
whatever however you want to say it what
were your thoughts when things were
still uh everything great in a theory in
land what were your thoughts on the
inflation schedule and the cap and the
no cap and stuff like that and pointed
proof of stake what were your thoughts
on that before kind of that whole mess
started 


Jerry:
well I thought that it was risky
to a transition from proof of work to
proof of stake and since then I've
looked into it more thoroughly and uh
you know I'm on the same page as Charles
consent which is that if you have a
system for proof of stake that is
untested and the entire community is
dependent upon Casper working the way
it's supposed to work without any flaws
it's tremendously risky the transition
is tremendously risky Casper is
necessary proof of stake is necessary in
order to correct the inflationary model
of etherium so etherium is eventually
intending to transition into a
deflationary model but right now it's
inflationary the same is true of Z cash
Z cash will one day transition into a
deflationary model right now it's highly
inflationary so to me I was always
interested in the etherium technology i
found the smart contracts platform is a
visionary and exciting but there was
always that risk and when the dow a
fiasco occurred what that convinced me
was that i could not properly trust the
etherium foundation as a centralized
authority as a centralized entity to
pull off Casper to pull off the
transition to proof of stake without any
issues and that's been supplemented by
more recent problems you know such as
the accidental hard fork where the
parody and death chains didn't quite
match up and when there are these kinds
of issues happening you know you can you
can understand that it's a highly
complex highly difficult problem to
solve but when you have looming this
transition to proof of state where so
much is riding on a smooth transition
the precedent of the Dow is highly
disconcerting sure



Carlo Vicari:
 it's like it's like a
bunch of red flags leading up to a
bigger red flag you know


Jerry:
 well I don't
know whether
they'll be able to pull it off without a
hitch the fact that it's untested is is
a is a problem and with athyrium classic
basically the decision was made that we
would fix the monetary policy issue we
would fix the inflationary monetary
policy through the implementation of a
reigning in of the block reward and a
cap on the overall issuance of the
tokens so that you never have in terms
of snap rolls vision of the ec IP you
never have more than about two hundred
million athyrium classic tokens this
brings etherium classic in line with the
vision of satoshi nakamoto in a way that
i find highly valuable because i've seen
what's been accomplished with bitcoin if
we can have the same kind of monetary
policy attached to this exciting smart
contracts platform technology then
Bitcoin and etherium classic can operate
side-by-side and complement each other
because they're based on the same
prevailing ideology I view a theorem as
having violated too many of the tenants
of satoshi nakamoto in ways that you
know I myself you as very conspicuous
it's up to each of the etherium
community supporters to determine for
themselves whether the Dow contentious
hard fork was a bailout I view it that
way and i look at the Genesis block of
the Bitcoin blockchain and i'm reminded
of what is etched there you know the
statement and the Genesis block is
Chancellor on verge of second bailout of
banks you're aware of this message on
the yep this is Blanc


Carlo Vicari:
very libertarian
principles absolutely



Jerry:
and so when you have an authority in
etherium that's able to engage in not
only printing up new fiat currency but
essentially due to the contentiousness
of the hard fork doubling the number of
etherium tokens right and youth using
the new tokens to reward the Dow
investors who were incredulous enough to
invest in a smart contract platform that
had a flaw that a hacker was able to
exploit and that to me is basically
reverting back to earlier historical
precedence where trusted third parties
are used in place of the trust lessness
of the blockchain so Satoshi's saying
here in the Genesis block I view it as
his saying that this is his reason for
creating bitcoin is that he is concerned
about the inflationary aspect of fiat
currency and he's concerned that if you
authorize a few people to print up as
much money as they want that this
becomes habitual right it says in that
it says in the Genesis block the second
bailout right so it's not unprecedented
and 


Carlo Vicari:
absolutely 


Jerry:
if you look at the videos
by andreas antonopoulos andreas
frequently talks about money printing as
being a kind of a drug addiction that
once you're given that authority it's
such a thrill that you get off on it and
then when you count problems you have a
ready-made solution you just print out
more feel right can



Christian Seberino:
 I make a comment
about that tell me if you agree or
disagree but to be fair to be a theory
of forked version so it's not equivalent
to
the Federal Reserve where you have a
bunch of people that sit around and they
could they could turn the spigot write
as much print as much money as they want
or it's it's it's they have a set policy
in place for how much the money supply
increases I won't rate it increases so
in that since it's not is I don't think
it's it's it's completely accurate to
say it's it's like the Federal Reserve
would you agree with



Jerry:
 that well the
similarities are that the Federal
Reserve has no cap on the number of
dollars that i can print bitcoin has a
21 million cap and a theorem classic at
this time has no cap it has no nothing
like the having of the block reward and
so these steps need to be taken because
this is going to be fixed according to
the etherium foundation by the
transition to proof of stake but we
don't know if it'll be successful and we
don't know when it'll happen so this
might be a good time to quote Barry
Silbert at the meda because he spoke on
this issue but getting back just
momentarily as an aside I would really
like to recommend to listeners to listen
to andreas antonopoulos views on the
addictive properties of money printing
and I think if you give people the
authority to make these kinds of steps
to alter the monetary supply that it's
very dangerous so the entire reason for
having the blockchain was to have a
decentralized trustless system so in
terms of what Barry Silbert said at this
meetup he's talking about meeting with
institutional investors okay and he's
saying he's capable of arguing in favor
of the monetary policy
Bitcoin to some investors you have to
recognize those people are very
conservative they're they're much less
impulsive than my rent or right putting
money into the Dow okay here's a direct
quote from Barry Silbert from the meetup
the Dow he says and here's the quote
that was to me the final nail in the
coffin of the etherium investment bates
Silbert says you have to understand that
i spend easily 25% of my time with
institutional investors and hedge funds
explaining to them the bitcoins supply
dynamic everybody knows it's 21 million
and the growth is fixed the idea that
five individuals could unilaterally make
a decision to fork etherion in my
opinion out of self-interest meant that
we were never going to see a theory am
successful as an investment asset class



Carlo Vicari:
yeah that's a pretty telling quote I'd
say



Jerry:
 so the idea with the theorem classic
is that we depart from this centralized
governance model that etherium is
relying upon we take it slow instead of
going fast and breaking things we try to
decentralize the process as much as
possible so you don't have authority
centralized in the hands of a few people
who can make you know contentious
decisions instead you have negotiation
and checks and balances between miners
developers and investors more generally





Christian Seberino:
can I make a comment so I think I think
that I think it's wise to have a cap to
the supply I think that's easy for
people to understand but just in it
again just in fairness to the etherium
the fourth version I think and their
their argument is so they're they're
increasing the money supply at a
constant rate but because the total
amount of money is constantly growing it
like way in the future the money supply
will be much bigger and so that constant
rate of ink
will become more and more insignificant
see what I'm saying but it that that the
money that's added becomes more and more
that it becomes less significant as the
total supply increases now that they



Jerry:
recognize the need for the transition to
proof of stake in order to rein in the
inflationary



Christian Seberino:
 yes they're fake is a whole
nother another you know issue but I mean
that back 



Jerry:
it's not really another issue
because the transition to proof of stake
will allow for a deflationary a monetary
policy so it is the necessary step to
take in order to bring areum in line
with otherwise you just have
quantitative easing on the blockchain I
don't see the any point in doing that if
you agree with the vision of satoshi
nakamoto that this is this is a way of
providing value that fiat currency
cannot do because those who are in
authority to print up money in fiat
currency they can't resist yeah they
cranked up too much so if their imprints
up too much as well the way that they
are going to solve this problem is
through the transition to a proof of
stake but we don't want to have you know
a digital fiat we want to have digital
gold that is something that people can
use as a store of value and it's
especially evident now that we need it
now that governments like the Indian
government are taking high denomination
physical cash as a collection


Carlo Vicari:
 yeah also
the other side of the coin for that
Christian is so let's just say if you
took the idea that ok it's a steady
inflation rate so things are okay even
with that line of thinking there are a
lot of people out there who still don't
feel comfortable with the steady
inflation rate just for inflation rates
sake because
there's always that fear that after the
centralization and the reversal of the
Dow there is the fear that in the future
that centralization can lead to oh well
let's just up the inflation rate or
let's just create you know we could
create a hundred million out of thin air
if we wanted to you know there still is
that threat if they're there is that
centralization of the platform which it
seems like there is a moment



Jerry:
 and how
inflationary was the contentious hard
fork you double the money supply
overnight this was obviously not the
intention but neither was the Dow hack
that was not the intention of the Dow
when you have over centralization when
you have an authority figure that is
signing off as curators on the Dow right
you had the etherium foundation stepping
forward to vouch for the Dow and saying
hey guys we checked out the smart
contract we're signing on as curators
and then not placing any cap on the
money invested into the Dow that's to me
is symptomatic of over centralization of
the governance model


Carlo Vicari:
 yeah I uh Jerry I
wanted to know what are since we're
talking about you know inflation and
fiat and governance gold all this stuff
what are your thoughts about um
hyperinflation and you know stuff like
what happened in Zimbabwe I guess that's
in reference to your analogy earlier
about print money printing being like
drugs you know the hyperinflation airy
depression is almost like an overdose I
guess right



Jerry:
 yeah I mean that's what's
happening now in that as well as you
speak right 



Carlo Vicari:
raise either way they're
weighing the money in red it's 



Jerry:
weighing
stacks of bills in order to pay for cups
of coffee in Venezuela and that's an
argument in favor of right i'm
interested in Bitcoin because it's
anarcho-capitalism when you have
socialists governance models there is
this danger of a piper inflation because
you're giving
people the too much authority you're
giving authority figures and lawmakers
and the government's too much authority
over the lives of the people so when
inflation happens we all pay for it
right if you're holding currency and
it's being hyper-inflated you pay for it
through inflation right that's it wasn't
observation to make so some people
transitioned from in some part of their
portfolio transition from fiat you know
US dollars Japanese yen into Bitcoin
because there's the set issuance whereas
if you give the government all of the
power and all of the authority to make
it so that they can enact their vision
of the ideal political situation then
they have free reign over the printing
press and they can print up as much fiat
currency as they want and they can
justify it by saying this is for your
well-being right they can say this is in
order to create a socialist utopia
that's why we're printing up all of this
money so having the set issuance in the
blockchain means that you don't have to
trust Satoshi Nakamoto not to double the
toker Bitcoin that's all been taken care
of by this protocol that can be audited
so that you know what the set issuance
is and you don't have to worry about
there being strange alterations that are
set forward by you know people in
positions of power 


Carlo Vicari:
Jerry have you ever
heard this have you ever heard this
quote before I think it's a pretty
interesting description of maybe the
business cycle that a lot of democracies
or Republic's go through so it's
attributed to Alexander Tytler although
people say he didn't write it some
people say he did write it or say it you
know whatever so I read it now it goes a
democracy cannot exist as a
form of government it can only exist
until the people discover that they can
vote themselves money from the public
treasury from that moment on the
majority always votes for the candidate
promising the most benefits from the
public treasury with the result that the
democracy always collapses due to loose
fiscal policy so I I always thought that
was kind of an interesting one you know
whether it's true or false you know it's
hard to hard to say there's a similar
Republic 




Jerry:
in US history there's a similar
quote something along the lines of that
you need a new revolution every
generation right because you start off
with people who have a good idea they
create a constitution it seems to work
for the people but gradually you know
the system is corrupted so this is the
problem with with people is that we all
have our vices we all have ways in which
we are corrupted by power so the idea of
the block chain as at Restless system is
that you place the trust in certain
things like the issuance of the monetary
supply in a protocol that cannot be
manipulated by human actors right


Carlo Vicari:
 yeah
true 


Jerry:
yes so basically Barry Silbert says
of a theorem classic this is at the
blockchain startup Singapore meet up
with Milton Demarest this is a quote by
Barry Silbert I've become excited about
the people focusing in on athyrium
classic you don't have this governance
risk where someday someone's going to
make a change that goes against the core
tenets of investing in crypto currency
and the way that I interpret that is the
community of etherium classic is
interested in having a decentralized
governance model in the mold of Bitcoin
and if you look at the history of
Bitcoin it was architected very
carefully
to be decentralized if Satoshi had
started his first post the message board
by saying hey everyone this is Bob Smith
of Wounded Knee Arkansas I've got a
great idea for a new technological
platform and then a few days later he
replied and said hey guys you know I
thought this through and maybe it would
be better if I were you know to post
under a pseudonym if from now on you
could refer to me as Satoshi Nakamoto
the cat would be on the back right right
his very first step had to be as a
pseudonym in order to decentralize the
network because in the early stages he
was the de facto leader he was the
figurehead and then as the network
became more and more decentralized by
having needs the ability for minors to
be located geographically all over the
world you know having different
philosophical backgrounds having
different economic backgrounds
decentralizing all of these miners to
protect the validity the immutability of
the Bitcoin blockchain 



Carlo Vicari:
right then he
left


Jerry:
 yeah the crowning achievement was
he left and that well allows for Bitcoin
to be what I view as being an inner co
capitalist model because the leader
lessness means that it's
anarcho-capitalism 



Carlo Vicari:
I can I have fun I
have my theory on Satoshi 



Christian Seberino:
ya know just
to make a comment so 


Carlo Vicari:
yeah good good


Christian Seberino:
 so I
think what we're all saying so if we if
us three if we decided tomorrow that
we're going to have start our own
cryptocurrency clearly we would want to
have a little or no centralization have
a cap had everything spelled out to grow
investor confidence but also I think
what you are saying you're you were
surmising that the reason that Satoshi
stayed anonymous was because it was to
protect his baby to protect Bitcoin that
it would have been a threat the
investors wouldn't have it wouldn't have
been confidence building if they saw the
powerful person well go ahead 



Carlo Vicari:
go ahead
Jerry I have my thoughts on that but go
ahead 



Jerry:
oh it was to protect
decentralization because vitalik has
been very successful as a figure that
inspires inspiration and this was not
the model that Satoshi set out to create
in my opinion so if you look at the
block chains I mean Kristen you were
saying if you were to create a
blockchain the the next question is
would you as christian create a block
chain or would you as a pseudonym create
a block chain why was it necessary for
Satoshi to be pseudonymous in this
enterprise now go down the list of block
chains so who is the godhood figure in
charge of the theorem it's metallic
right well how about Zeke a shit Zuko
how about waves it's Sasha how about
litecoin it's Charlie so in each of
these situations you need a strong
powerful figure to represent the
blockchain to get investors excited
there's really very few arguably
exceptions there's Bitcoin when Satoshi
Nakamoto left which I think was his plan
from the start in order to create a
leaderless model and vitalik left the
immutable blockchain we had a very
interesting historical precedent of
another potentially leaderless model



Carlo Vicari:
yeah I'm about it so I was also thinking
about Satoshi a lot of his bitcoins
haven't moved correct at the there's a
few address not none of them alone so
Satoshi actually he lost his key and
he's really upset 



Jerry:
I think he burned
anything 



Carlo Vicari:
yeah he just lost his keys and
he's got a million a lot of million I
don't know how much money that would be
right now I



Jerry:
 I think he burned the keys
because his goal was not to get rich his
goal was to create a platform that would
be viable long-term that would allow
people an alternative stored value so
win wat 



Carlo Vicari:
can't imagine burning burning a
key with a million bitcoins on it well


Jerry:
well what would be more rewarding to you
right i mean arguably would you find it
more rewarding to win the lottery and
and make a hundred million dollars or
would you find it more rewarding to be
the architect of you know arguably i
guess we're pretty biased but one of the
greatest technological revolutions of
our time but uh it would



Carlo Vicari:
 I would I would
fade it to the background keep my key
and then of the year 20xx cash on him
out have a little bit of a good time
that I mean that's just me 



Jerry:
I think
Satoshi burned them but I mean and you
don't know 




Carlo Vicari:
Jerry you're hurting me
you're hurting my chest i felony


Jerry:
 how
many millions of dollars do you need
though I mean should we put an upper cap
on the amount of money you would you
would want to possess I mean I'd 90 




Carlo Vicari:
yeah
I guess 



Jerry:
so I did it for himself he had
enough cash and what he needed was to
create something that was you know for
the well-being of the human Enterprise 


Carlo Vicari:
I
am I heart sinking 


Christian Seberino:
yeah I think of a
similar 



Jerry:
Craig right and ask him to send
you some of Satoshi's coins more than 



Christian Seberino:
I
know but an analogy is think about the
world wide web when Tim berners-lee was
when it was taking off people said you
should make money off this you should
somehow control it and he was insistent
that he wanted everything to be open
source the protocols to be open and it
wasn't whether




Carlo Vicari:
 whether he has the key or
doesn't have the key it doesn't control
it but it would be nice if he had the
key at least I'm hoping for him whether
he wants to take all the money and
donate it to charity whatever but I mean
really actually if you think about it
since each bitcoin is just a
representation of electricity it's
almost like if a gold bar is a bar of
gold each bitcoin is like an electricity
bar if you burn those keys that's a lot
of electricity through in the garbage
that hurts a lot of resources or you



Christian Seberino:
know I don't like you now it were no no
that analogy it's more like it's more
like he just threw a bunch of random
numbers
garbage 




Carlo Vicari:
no no well were you gonna say
Jerry sorry 



Jerry:
I think that you know the
vision of Bitcoin to me it seemed
conspicuously as I said to be an
anarcho-capitalist model so if he
possessed all of those coins he would be
in a position of authority that is you
know unprecedented and in human history
I mean there I guess there's some pretty
people out there but if you look at
what's going on in India just because
this was something that happened just a
few days before this digital currency
group meetup in India lawmakers decided
without any warning that they would
eliminate the 500 and 1,000 rupee notes
over not really 


Carlo Vicari:
crazy


Jerry:
 and everyone had
to take their 500 and 1000 rupee notes
to the bank and deposit them or exchange
them for smaller denomination bills this
was done in order to counteract
counterfeiting right in order to prevent
against people counterfeiting these high
denomination bills just in order to to
have berries views be showcased a little
more on this podcast he said that this
to him is threatening he used the words
terrifying and he says that this is
something that the rest of the world is
paying very close attention to the
direct quote I'm not a big believer in
holding on to physical cash silbert says
but I do believe in privacy I can assure
you that many countries around the world
are looking at this experiment in India
and assuming it is successful I believe
they are going to follow suit so there
are already talks to eliminate the
100-dollar bill in the United States and
there are plans to eliminate the 500
euro bill by the end of 2018 so how Matt
it looks like high denomination physical
bills are going to be gradually
eliminated a
on a global scale 



Christian Seberino:
I've heard that before
a long time ago that well if you think
and I could see the arguments for that
if you think about Gators how many
hundred dollar bills are counterfeit how
many are sitting in some drug dealers
basement and so if you made a rule that
said okay in the next five years
everybody has to turn in their hundred
dollar bills for replacements the
nefarious people won't do that the
counterfeit bills obviously won't be
turned in and so it's away from the
United States government to to get a
hold of a lot of cash that's floating
out there notoriously there was a clever
argument 


Jerry:
it's it's a technological arms
race because as the ability as as
technology improves that allows people
to counterfeit fiat currency the
government needs to respond to that so
right now in india people are buying
lots of rolex watches as they see it as
being you know perhaps a way to have a
store of value because they they don't
see rolex watches being you know taken
out of circulation it's a substitution
for one thousand rupee notes but it's
it's kind of a crude right especially in
comparison with the obvious realize yeah
cryptocurrency is basically positions to
replace these high denomination bills
and so the question becomes
geographically which nations are going
to say well there's too much privacy you
have too many privacy options with these
cryptocurrencies so we need to regulate
them out of existence or crack down on
them and which nations are going to be
more welcoming of financial technology
because they see it as being a potential
boon to their ya venis



Carlo Vicari:
 i have i have
some thoughts on on countries and their
willingness to you know use
cryptocurrency or block chains in
general and stuff like that um i see it
as kind of being like a domino effect um
so the only thing that these countries
dislike more than block chains are their
necks
door neighbors being way better than
them and having a better economy and
stuff like that so even if you had say
five or six countries say in Africa or
the Middle East or something like that
they were completely anti blocked change
for whatever reason all it really takes
is one of them to be pro block chain and
start to reap the benefits of you know
increased productivity and just you know
everything would be so much more
efficient than their next-door neighbors
that the rest would follow suit I think
pretty quickly at least that's what I
think that's what



Jerry:
 I hope this historical
precedent of automobiles in Europe don't
you at the at the time when as a
technology people were transitioning
from the horse and buggy to the ford
model t and the early protocol for
automobiles this goes back to another
andreas talk result and there's a lot of
contents in there that's very useful
from a historical perspective apparently
there was some regulation I believe
applied in Britain that said we're
really concerned about these automobiles
we're concerned about their safety and
so we're going to impose a new law that
says that if you have an automobile on
the road you need to have a driver and
then in addition you need to have
someone who's positioned ahead of the
automobile who walks ahead of the
automobile and waves of flag in the air
people that there's this flaming death
mobile on the way and they should be on
you know Red Alert all right that did
not surprisingly enough contribute
positively to the automobile industry in
Europe the US which didn't have this
regulation pulled ahead because you know
basically the government had hamstrung
this industry in its early days and it
was only later that that you're managed
to catch up but I believe that I'm
remembering this so you might want to
check the specifics that have these
historical precedents where one nation
or another you
is uses regulation to inhibit
technological advancements so we might
be seeing something similar yes



Christian Seberino:
 that's
actually encouraging what you guys said
because if you're if you in the back
your mind if somebody has a fears of a
coming you know war government versus
the cryptocurrency enthusiasts and the
privacy supporters versus the government
if it what you're saying is all the
government's or at least the powerful
ones that all have to collude to try to
ban cryptocurrency NBC 



Carlo Vicari:
Is still though
still though it's almost like a
government version of a 51-percent
attack all it takes is one to create
this this keeping up with the Joneses
scenario where then everybody would
switch really quickly I think I mean
really quickly in terms of how quickly
move the government's move with putting
regulation in and taking it out it
wouldn't be like you know a day or so
but it it really wouldn't take that long
I think after one government is very Pro
blockchain for the others to follow suit
I think obviously you'd have the
stragglers just like we have you know in
today's world we have governments that
are you know anti-capitalist and and lag
behind you know in many different
categories I think in the future you're
still going to have the the people who
really stick their feet in the ground
and don't want to budge but there's
going to be a ton of pro block pain
government's just because they want the
competitive advantage over their
neighbors and they want to be better
than them 


Jerry:
yeah you're also going to see
some pro blockchain innovation within
geographical regions that are anti
capitalism as a as a means of survival
right so necessity breeds invention is
that the the phrase if you're in
Venezuela right now and you're a Bitcoin
ur that can be a value to you immensely
if you're in the United States you know
a lot of people dismiss Bitcoin as being
completely irrelevant because they've
got this strong national currency that
doesn't undergo these these crises so I
think we'll see
some very interesting experiments
happening in places where the situation
is not so good and then in terms of
startups it looks like right now a good
place to be is probably Switzerland or
Singapore those governments seem to want
to encourage people to be experimental
with their fin tech startups you know so
I think we're going to be seeing a lot
of really interesting things happening
in high-tech Singapore I think we're
going to be seeing some really
interesting things happening in a you
know less advantageously situated places
out of necessity 


Carlo Vicari:
yeah I agree um so I
think that about wraps it up for me I
don't know if you have any other
questions there anything you want to
touch on unchristian


Christian Seberino:
 no no that was
pretty thorough 



Carlo Vicari:
yeah good great stuff
Jerry


Jerry:
 can I bring up one more thing oh


Carlo Vicari:
yeah absolutely go ahead 



Jerry:
um not to
belabor the point but the thesis that I
arrived upon regarding the etherium
classic community was that there were
these three constituent constituencies
of the developers the miners and the
investors and that these three
constituencies should have differing
objectives and I view this as being
really important because it is the
negotiation between these three groups
that provide checks and balances over
authoritarian overreach right so it's
useful for people in the community to
identify what their objectives are and
to communicate with other people who are
part of their same camp it's important
for the different camps to negotiate in
order to arrive upon ec IPS rather than
reverting to ad hominem attacks or other
forms of coercion right so if you and I
had decided to meet for this podcast and
you wanted to meet on a monday and i
wanted to meet on a wednesday
we have differing objectives which is
fine that's a natural consequence of our
being in different positions
strategically we could negotiate to meet
on Tuesday for you it's a bit late for
me it's a bit early but we each make
concessions in order to arrive upon a
conclusion that we both can live with
right right the other thing that can
occur of course is to engage in coercion
so you know I call you nasty names or
you threaten me or so and so forth
that's an attempt to marginalize the
other person's agency it's a way of
taking away from them any potential
bargaining chips that you could use in
order to arrive on a on a harmonious
solution that that requires concessions
so that's what I'm really concerned
about with a fear in classic we don't
want anyone strong-arming the community
we want a series of checks and balances
and we should always be vigilant in
identifying behavior that is destructive
because there are people who are going
to use coercive methods either in order
to self aggrandize to make others
incapable of being part of the
discussion or because they are holding
tokens from some other blockchain and
they have a vested interest in the
etherium classic community being non
competitive so that I view as being a
useful framework to think of when
engaging with the community 


Carlo Vicari:
okay


Christian Seberino:
 so
you'd like to see us just to partially
summarize you'd like to see the
community the different aspects of it
work together cordially and effectively
without having to resort to more
undesirable behaviors 



Jerry:
so there are
certain people who are miners who are
also investors because they mine the
blockchain and they are saving up token
so they occupy more than one can but
when you ask them about their objectives
then it's going to be more clear whether
their objectives are in alignment with
the minors or in alignment with the
developers so a way to subvert the
system is to say oh hey guys I'm an
investor I have lots of tokens but in
actuality your objectives are in
alignment with the minors and you're
just trying to subvert the ability of
the other camp by posing as part of that
group we need to be honest with each
other about which objectives we have and
it's just going to be very clear as it
scales up that the developers the miners
and the investors have differing
objectives and from there you need to
negotiate in order to rage ec IPS and
the reason you need to negotiate instead
of using coercion is that these three
camps are set up like dominoes right if
one falls the other fall so I'm an
investor maybe I'm arguing with the
miners and I come up with some ingenious
method of sabotaging the miners well the
miners are sabotage they all walk right
they start mining some other blockchain
they mine athyrium where they mined z
cash well what does that do to the hash
rate the hash rate drops now the
developers can't run their dap's I
intentionally sabotaged the miners and
now that's hit the developers developers
can't run their dap's and suddenly
there's no value to the system the dap
start running investors sell their
tokens so I've managed to it boomerangs
back on me by sabotaging the miners the
other dominoes fall and it boomerangs
back on me that's why there's a
necessity for negotiation it isn't
because we all need to be nice people we
need to be intelligent and recognize
that our own objectives reaching those
objectives require
the success of the other two
constituencies we either have a virtuous
cycle where we reinforce each other or
we have a vicious cycle where sabotage
breeds sabotage 



Carlo Vicari:
yeah very true it's a
tripod we got to keep all three legs
nice and strong you said dominoes I was
thinking tripod 



Jerry:
that's all that's like
my framework for thinking about the
necessity of negotiation and when people
attack Barry Silbert which happens
fairly frequently within the etherium
classic community the way that I think
about that is I view it as a way of
basically using coercion right it's an
ad hominem attack in order to strip away
the validity of the participation of the
investors and investors like me are
particularly I think that we are
threatened by the ease with which people
can characterize investors as being self
a short-term oriented and selfish right
but without the investors invest in
capital without people like Barry
Silbert going out on a limb as you
mentioned and melton Denver Arsene the
digital currency group as an institution
without their going out on a limb and
taking risks and saying we see there
being this really good foundation for
athyrium classic then there's no value
to the tokens right if no investors are
investing capital in the token there's
no value to the tokens that means the
miners can't pay their veldt their bills
if they're mining the blockchain and it
means no node apps will run on the
blockchain so the investors have a
legitimate role the miners have a
legitimate role the developers have a
legitimate rule we're working together
and ad hominem attacks against any one
of these constituencies especially by
targeting the most influential members
then constituencies I view as being a
method of counteracting negotiation by
using ad homonyms as a form of coercion
that makes sense 


Carlo Vicari:
yeah makes sense to me
and I agree that's why you know I think
we all do or most people do a pretty
good job of keeping the debates and
discussions civil which is pretty
awesome and I'm pretty happy with that
um so uh anything else you wanna you
want to touch it on Christian or Jay 


Jerry:
no


Christian Seberino:
I'm good that's it for me


Carlo Vicari:
 okay excellent
so Jerry thanks for joining us tonight
absolutely thanks for joining me and
Christian on this we'd love to have you
on again sometime we're kind of going
through different aspects of the
community the miners the devs on now
we've had you know from an investor
perspective on so we're gonna have a lot
of different guests as the in the the
week scope going forward but we'd love
to have you on again sometime absolutely


Jerry:
my pleasure looking cool in ecology



Carlo Vicari:
excellent all right take care guys
gracefully with you
you
