# Let's Talk ETC: Cody Burns (Dontpanicburns) - TokenMint, StateBot & More.
Carlo Vicari:
hi everybody you're listening to let's
talk et Cie I'm your host karlovy along
with my co-host dr. Christian Severino I
just want to thank everybody for taking
the time to check out the damn it I'll
do it again we always we always have one
of those
I said I don't have my script in front
of me 



Cody Burns:
right now that was good you're on
a roll all right 



Carlo Vicari:
here we go okay one two
three
hi everybody you're listening to let's
talk et Cie I'm your host Carlo V along
with my co-host dr. Christian Severino
we were a really special guest with us
this week he goes by
don't panic burns on the ET Cieslak and
also on the ET cie reddit also in the
news we've had a pretty turbulent week
with the markets so anybody that's
freaking out a little bit about Bitcoin
et Cie whatever you got in your crypto
portfolio don't worry too much looks
like we had a nice bounce-back today and
things are starting to settle in but as
you guys know these are turbulent times
24/7 365 so for anybody new get used to
it because it really never changes it
always feels like there's something
going on and also a special note about
this time last year the Dow incident
occurred which kind of set this whole
etc' thing in motion so maybe we can get
a little bit more into that later on in
the show but first I just want to
introduce Cody Cody thanks for being on
the show other



Cody Burns:
 things really appreciate



Carlo Vicari:
you taking the time yeah absolutely
yeah welcome so uh Cody something we
like to do on the show at least for
someone's first time on is kind of give
a little introduction in people's
backgrounds so anyone listening can hear
about some of the cool people that are
working on the project behind the scenes
so what was your kind of background
leading into tech you know whenever that
was or whatever you were doing 




Cody Burns:
uh well I
guess it started out I was a head
computers ever since I was a teenager I
was pretty fortunate
I grew up in a small town in East Texas
where there wasn't very many people or
things to do but they said I had a
computer so I learned how to program and
I've always just really loved technology
and it's this was early 90s is whenever
I guess started in computers
I had a TI 99 it was my first computer
you had to program it and basic just to
get it going 




Christian Seberino:
oh that was my first one
also denied up for e yep



Cody Burns:
 not for a Bill
Cosby sold 





Carlo Vicari:
it C to me I hear that and
all I hear is calculator but I guess
that was a computer back in the early
night 




Cody Burns:
it was I raised a fancy calculator
at least but yeah but it's a probably as
powerful as the EVM at least



Christian Seberino:
 16
kilobytes of memory my if I recall
correctly


Cody Burns:
 you don't sound like a benefit
yeah you could plug a tape player into
it if you wanted to save your programs


Christian Seberino:
yep I did that it half the time



Carlo Vicari:
yeah could you could you play snake on
it that's the that's the question



Cody Burns:
oh yeah you could place snakes and Hanks
in stuff if you just spent three or four
days sitting there programming it all in
and tuned it takes your code whatever
you got through so it was though




Carlo Vicari:
 okay so
so computer computers at a young age
definitely lends itself to to being in
you know as skilled as as definitely you
are with all this stuff so computers at
a young age and then uh college did you
know say in Texas who leave Texas 




Cody Burns:
left
Texas like I said I grew up in a really
small town so that was first thing I
wanted to do is get out of there because
I had no desire to marry my cousin or be
a pro rodeos or or whatever so okay
ran away from home and joined the
Marines whenever I was 18 so that's why
I got into communications I went to boot
camp in San Diego and then I was in a 29
palms California for a year doing
communication school so I did and 



Carlo Vicari:
so so
how long how long total were you in the
Marines for




Cody Burns:
 nine years total Wow yeah my
first
that was five years of the year school
and after that I want to be a drill
instructor for some reason



Carlo Vicari:
 you did what



Cody Burns:
yeah it was a well briefly I was a drill
instructor in Parris Island that didn't
work out well



Christian Seberino:
okay 




Carlo Vicari:
what would wear so you were a drill
instructor but then you it wasn't
working out and did they reassign you to
something else or you you chose or they
chose what happened with that 




Cody Burns:
uh it was
a mutual thing I guess it was a not a
shining moment my military career but I
went back to doing communication stuff
and then went Iraq and then I decided to
get out and go to college 



Christian Seberino:
so so you're
you're a nerd that can defend himself
yes impress 




Cody Burns:
sure



Carlo Vicari:
 so something you went
so you you were into computers uni you
were developing join the Marines then
you were a drill instructor went to Iraq
and came back and went to college where
you go 




Cody Burns:
right I went to a I did it online
because by that time I was married had
kids



Carlo Vicari:
 right right
love by the way there anyone listening
we were having a conversation before the
show and I was mentioning I kind of knew
Cody's backstory a little bit and I said
that he was head of the et Cie world
he's the most interesting man of the
e.t.c world for sure so um so okay so
you said you were settled down you got
your you know went to college online for
your degree and everything and uh and
then you got back into tech 



Cody Burns:
uh yeah once
I got out I got a job as a firefighter
and because I've had my communications
and electronics and all that background
I ended up working at a 911 center okay
well I was oh the EMT firefighter and
then doing yeah the communication stuff
also so I did that for about three years
while I finish my bachelor's degree 




Carlo Vicari:
are
your days like thirty-five hours long or
something 



Cody Burns:
with your feel he's 




Carlo Vicari:
an EMT try
a fighter doing the 911 and the
communications and going to college with
the wife and kid I feel like if I can't
accomplish anything right now well now
all right yeah no I'm sure what




Christian Seberino:
 so it
was that stressful like you you uh you a
couple of stress okay come come to work
uh you know like lay down on the job and
oops sorry I couldn't send the ambulance
out on time



Cody Burns:
no it wasn't it wasn't a really high
turnover we didn't run all the whole lot
of calls I worked in a really nice part
of town so things didn't really catch on
fire ahead often medical calls for most
of it
so we'd work 24 hour shifts so you get
there at 7:00 and then sleep at night
eat meals there and okay then you work
one day on one day off one day on and
then like five days off so okay I mean
it's got you





Christian Seberino:
 what did you after or maybe
you still work for for that or did you
do something else after that




Cody Burns:
 after that
I went to oil and gas stuff doing a
seismic survey so it's pretty much you
go out ahead of the drilling crews
whenever they pick a area and they want
to figure out what's underneath it so
they go out and do a survey of it and
you basically collect all the find out
who owns all the land who has the
surface rights the mineral rights and
then take a big sonogram pretty much of
the whole area 



Carlo Vicari:
okay so so then he became
an oil man now that was you get into
that 



Cody Burns:
it was a family business that's
what my dad had always done 



Carlo Vicari:
so okay I
think 



Cody Burns:
I forget 





Carlo Vicari:
so I can think 



Christian Seberino:
okay so
cool yeah the COO sticks you you could
use your communications background there



Cody Burns:
yeah it's actually pretty tech heavy
because you need to store that amount of
data used to have terabytes and
terabytes of data that they've kept for
years and they process through all it
because they'll do a hundred square mile
area so
it's pretty daddy right that's right
that got me the databases and kind of
cluster computing more or less because
we always had just shitty computers so
figuring out how to hook them all
together and yeah try to make a halfway
powerful computer though he's make 



Christian Seberino:
it
what we wanted to do though is that all
the stuff you did or did you then take a
you know do something even more
different 



Carlo Vicari:
they wanted to take him to the
moon but he said he was busy



Cody Burns:
 yeah that's
on hold still
no that's whatever I started doing the
the master's degree was Melrose doing
that okay though
University Houston I started to get my
MBA because I just wanted to learn more
about business and stuff okay





Christian Seberino:
 so so how
did you find yourself then in in the
Jeep so lots of angry and slow yeah but
what's your degree in software which one
computer science they're your bachelors



Cody Burns:
bachelors lives in emergency management
okay and that's really covering stuff



Christian Seberino:
yeah I got my MBA 


Cody Burns:
yeah well I just
finished it last May I got my MBA I
thought I've never actually went to
college for computer stuff 





Christian Seberino:
I see so are
you a DUI you big into your self-taught
programming big into programming 



Cody Burns:
uh I
try to be I mean I can program okay
I'm not I'm not super great at it that's
why I'd probably never have a job as a
real developer but I can recoat again
regret find bugs and things like 




Christian Seberino:
and
then so how did you fall into EPC






Cody Burns:
 uh
well I was got into Bitcoin back in
whenever it surged big I think 14 or so
whereas everyone thought oh well we
totally missed the bus on this because
it just hit a thousand dollars so we'll
never own a Bitcoin right and uh then it
crashed
so that's right I'm I got it got it
right yeah and during the oil and gas
stuff that's when one of the big parts
of it was finding all the land records
and it is an absolute nightmare if you
go anywhere like Louisiana
or Pennsylvania or anywhere where
anyone's actually looking for oil right
now because you had to go to courthouses
in the big food courthouse records and
find a chain of title all the way back
to whenever the first person sold the
land followed all the splits and it's
just terrible
so around the end of 2015 I think is a
when I heard of the theorem for the
first time that was seem like the
missing link and all the blockchain
stuff for me well Bitcoin was it wasn't
called blockchain back then really
everyone 


Carlo Vicari:
right yeah 



Christian Seberino:
did you bring up the
land title issue because you thought
that that would block chains would be
helpful for that



Cody Burns:
yeah they be they still would be very
helpful for it you can get a local
government or something to digitize all
the records that would have completely
now I be revolutionary 




Carlo Vicari:
I imagine that's
kind of something that factum is working
on I believe correct I mean not working
on they're doing it factum yeah so
they're doing some pretty cool stuff




Christian Seberino:
yeah I think for you would agree so in
America it's just an annoyance having to
work hard to dig up the records but I
think in other countries like I think
Honduras had a big problem with that
word yeah the dictator can just say wait
oh no that's you you uh that's not the
records I have that accurate records and




Cody Burns:
yeah yes I think factum is doing theirs
in South America right now they have a
contract down there okay but yeah it's
hard enough and I guess the civilized
world of putting out of state so as
civilized as southern Louisiana can be
but you'll have yeah I guess basically
the tools that whenever they were going
through doing the original surveys was
back in a hundred years ago as accurate
as they could get the instruments and I
came through shooting a line about 2,000
or 3,000 feet and you just carry air
with you so much so there's always going
to be some mistakes in it
okay then someone's brother sold
something and didn't tell anybody and
there was always a little bright little
quirks to it going through though but it
was a published distributed ledger then
everybody could see it at once that was
always what would I thought would be an
awesome use for aetherium hey that
insight of that was back in 15 





Christian Seberino:
okay and
so you got you are interested in a
hiriam and then how did what got you to
focus on aetherium classic uh 





Cody Burns:
well to be
honest whenever the split was happening
last year this time I didn't think
anyone would actually stay with the
other chain okay it FRA didn't make any
sense that if you're gonna reverse
transactions and stuff like that it
would have any value so it just didn't
make any sense to me that anyone but
actually stay with it uh turns out I was
wrong so I'll admit that but sounds like
you guys agree - 



Christian Seberino:
yeah you disagreed with
the reversal or the what the state
changes guesses they were correct
technically right way to say it
you know 




Cody Burns:
the Regenesis block I guess


Christian Seberino:
okay yeah right so and then so we've
talked about your background then why
don't you kind of share some of the
things you're working on related to ET
cie uh 




Cody Burns:
right now the big thing that
we're working on lemon and Chuck and I
have been working on the token mint okay
it's a gonna be a I guess an educational
platform or lefts for deploying the ERC
two to three tokens and having crowd
cells and it's a we started a couple
weeks ago on the classic wallet we made
the I guess more or less troll site of
the ICO machine now we just we split
that off into its own project we'll be
able to deploy tokens with one-click and
have crowd sales and actually try to
educate people on different types of
crowd sales what a Vickrey auction is or



Christian Seberino:
so do you prefer the term crowd sale -
initial coin offering is AI code


Carlo Vicari:
definitely don't say yeah you definitely
shouldn't say I see
anymore yeah people keep doing it
actually what I want to ask you about
also is um uh so for anybody listening a
Cody or don't panic or you know whatever
moniker you want to call him Cody was
here since you know day one with e.t.c
uh and he's just done so much for the
community in so many different ways so
first I want to thank you on-air for it
for everything you've done and also now
that we're kind of approaching this
whole Dow anniversary date um where what
what do you see as how far you know etc'
has come and some of the differences in
the industry from last year to this year
like kind of in reference to the client
the global climate of everything that's
going on and how things are now and
maybe some things you see for the future
because it just seems like you know the
Dow feels like yesterday but it's it's
now been a whole year pretty pretty
pretty much since that happened and so
much has happened since then but also
you know things are things are the same
and yet they're different you know 




Cody Burns:
yeah
like that
it's a DTC I feel like we've done a
whole lot in the last year compared to
like I said I don't follow ETH as much
but I mean et Cie that kept the supply
disabled the difficulty bomb we've
managed to stay alive for an entire year
without any the funding or support of
that the other chain has I mean we don't
have the marketing there's not huge
press events we don't have mm-hmm paid
spokesmen but I mean just as a community
effort with ATC the price now is higher
than it was last year if price is a
indicator of it like that we don't have
the hype cycle if the other ones do but
as far as technological and just systems
I think et sees then a lot of the
Emerald wallets coming out I know
Igor's been working on the BB m io HK is
been working on their client and rework
in the




Carlo Vicari:
yeah what does asked us Khalid the yeah
Allah critique client right yeah 



Cody Burns:
right
so like I said it feels like a TC we've
done a lot the investment trust has come
around that's right 




Christian Seberino:
yes we have good
fundamentals 




Cody Burns:
yeah and like I said we
have terrible marketing but everything
else is pretty solid I don't have a
solid inflow of icos I guess we don't
have people pumping the crap out of the
system but we're working on that
so but


Carlo Vicari:
 crowd sales 



Cody Burns:
crack their crowds
throughout sales yeah when City I saw
yesterday that expanse is going to start
focusing on that to the other type of
etherium 



Carlo Vicari:
yeah I know wha okey I know the
expanse churn out 



Cody Burns:
yeah there they have a
token lab is coming out for them which
is kind of same thing as token mint
where you'll be able to just easily
launch standardized contracts 



Christian Seberino:
now is the
reason you were motivated partly to do
token mint because you had a lot of
people that were confused or making
buggy crowd sale contracts



Cody Burns:
 not so much
bug is it just seems like there's a
whole lot of mystery behind it the whole
process everyone thinks oh it's an IC
o---- they've done something special and
magical and with that with the first
version we put out we literally copy and
pasted the code that's on the front page
of aetherium org and the first contract
on there is how to make a token in the
second one is headed to crowd sale so we
just took that and put it with a
one-click button okay yeah right now
there's I was gonna say right now like I
said a new token comes out every other
day and they're pretty much reinventing
the wheel and it's like they've invented
fire and all they are doing is making
the simplest contract that you can on
the theorem 



Christian Seberino:
yeah so you get a lot of
emails from startups saying please help
us to do a token or do a crowd sale




Cody Burns:
 no I
haven't yet
maybe a threat maybe yeah maybe at your
token mint gets going 




Christian Seberino:
okay all right and



Carlo Vicari:
yeah I think pea infrastructure for that
is still being developed and 





Cody Burns:
yeah let's
be cool um both chains is that there's
not really good user interfaces that's
every super focused on oh look I can do
all you have to do is enter these
commands into the prompt and then it'll
do this and that there's not a nice
pretty face in front of it as far as
software it goes that's what I guess
toka metal right to the table that you
can look at it and anybody could say oh
well look you just put this field here
in here the codes in the background you
don't really have to think about it 




Carlo Vicari:
yeah
interesting 



Christian Seberino:
right now and then also
another project that you mentioned that
you are working on which seemed
interesting to me is state bot
can you go and introduce the audience to
what that's all about





Cody Burns:
yeah state but it's a state bot INF oh
right now is it's a top-level domain
it's entirely run on an IP FS and PTC
okay
and a Raspberry Pi is back end of it but
every week it's running parity and it
keeps the database thing and it's so
around Saturday it stops and starts
export in the whole state so every
single account that's ever been
mentioned on the chain whether it has
zero balance and anything it's about one
state one point eight gigs worth of
adjacent file right now so it exports
that and then uploads it to the ipfs
cluster and then it sends the hash of it
to its smart contract and the smart
contract is read by another system
that's running on a BFS so the whole web
front end is on ipfs and it just things
one of the public api's and gets the
data from the contract 



Christian Seberino:
okay so there's
so much we could talk about for that
that's interesting so for the people
that don't know so ipfs is an
interplanetary file system so it's a
basically a distributed file system
nestled
words etc' right because it would be too
expensive to store gigabytes of data on
the epc blockchain right now what was
the need it was a use case so because we
all agree that the blockchain is secure
there's no danger than anybody could
mess with the state right and so what
was the the reason that you were
motivated to write the state to ipfs



Cody Burns:
because it's really hard to find
information on it if you wanted to query
accounts it's not an easy task to do and
if it's an adjacent format then anybody
can just link to it and pull it into a
database and see how many counts are
above one DGC balanced and just a number
of accounts and anything you want to do
you can find out how many if you had a
snippet of code I don't how many times
that snippet codes in there just with a
sample in our project or lay it on your
website 




Christian Seberino:
so I so the blockchain it's is
secure nobody's disputing that but the
blockchain basically is it has hashes so
you could you could in principle get the
state at any point in time you want it
but you have to rerun the world computer
from write the beginning of pyoung and
so it's possible and it's secure but
it's annoying but with your system you
it's much more convenient okay so now I
can see why 






Cody Burns:
yes just a weekly snapshot
of every account that's been out there
so glad you had to be running a full
node and




Christian Seberino:
 yeah yeah and we're anything





Cody Burns:
out yourself





Christian Seberino:
 that's right and when you
run a full node you it's it's optional
whether you want to store the state
right well then that of course requires
so much more storage space and so some
people elect not to do that but um the
first the obvious concern then is how
secure can somebody extract the state
let's say from three days ago right have
you you you have any what can you say to
assure you know people that have that
word




Cody Burns:
if they're wondering if how if there's
been any changes or anything on state
bought or that just




Christian Seberino:
 oh it likes it's
could somebody mess with the state that
you store with state bought it would be
is our security risk if I trust your
state rather than replaying the entire
blockchain animation 





Cody Burns:
um there shouldn't
be I guess is the easiest answer to it
whenever that it goes into the ipfs
system it takes the hash of the whole
file okay and then that's the link to it
whenever you're whenever you try to get
a file out of ipfs any system that's on
the network and get it they just have to
have the hash of it



Christian Seberino:
oh so I see so if I was worried about
you know tampering I could I could hash
what I get from look I can hack in hash
with my JSON file to verify that it was
not tampered with okay yeah so that's
that's certainly secure and um also for
people that I'm kind of curious about
ipfs so it's distributed just like etc'
is distributed but how like you people
do you have to pay for the storage that
you're using or can you kind of describe
it so maybe if people want to have an
application it that needs a lot of
storage how does how does that work



Cody Burns:
right uh it's not like storage where
with storage uh it's another file system
but with storage everyone shares the
same files everything spread across the
system you get paid for the storage you
want okay with ipfs is your local system
you run another yourself and everything
you put on it is just on your system if
somebody wants to share it out it's just
like the Pirate Bay
they have to know you whatever hash
whatever file you're trying to share
with them and then they would download
the file from you and then both of you
would have a copy and if a third person
wanted it then it would pull from both
of you and it spreads like that so it's
more of a file sharing system




Christian Seberino:
 okay so
that you have a server with a fat hard
drive someplace that you're rust writing
okay and so that you're saying then if
there was a lot of demand
then then it would automatically get
distributed 



Cody Burns:
yeah as more people as you
download a file from ipfs that stays on
your system and it's starts eating out
to other computers then whoa hey
and how do you don't store other
people's stuff again 





Christian Seberino:
how did you come up
with with the idea for state but that's
kind of clever 




Cody Burns:
uh it was I just couldn't
find the information that I wanted to in
an easy format because that's what I was
trying to do is just do analysis on the
blockchain I can pull it into our
project and then I started playing with
a PFS and it seemed really cool and
that's what I had been at you could host
a whole website on your app EFS and
people can reach it from the outside
world and you put a top-level domain on
it oh okay
that's really cool 




Christian Seberino:
now you talked about
analysis is there any anything you're
cooking up in the other projects that
you're that that pertains to or that you
want to share 




Cody Burns:
uh no nothing nothing
really there's 







Carlo Vicari:
a sudden uh-huh I was
gonna say here's something that I want
to ask you about so you know now that
we've come from last year to this year
and you know we're talking like tangible
type of stuff but I know actually Matt
or snap-roll hates these questions but
what do what do you see
you know given that you have such a
history of so many different fields that
you've worked in and so many different
applications I'm sure you could think of
for blockchain what do you see is kind
of some of the future use cases for etc'
that you could just brainstorm off the
top of your head whether they're really
feasible or not you know that can be
debatable but just some things that
you'd love for e.t.c to potentially be
used for and maybe anyone listening out
there who's a developer can start
thinking of ways to get it done 




Cody Burns:
uh
financial instruments are still a big
one I think it'd be really needed
securities and just public records in
general can be stored on a block plane
they could tie into a public because the
public Ledger's I think the way to go I
don't understand the principle behind
having private blockchains it's you
easily do the same stuff with a SQL
database and yeah thousand times faster
and not have the security risk of it
with the public chains it if you're
doing stuff like Airbnb or something
like that you can actually tie it into a
blockchain then that actually has value



Carlo Vicari:
you said Airbnb can you expand on that
more the Airbnb in and blockchain 





Cody Burns:
right
uh things that I guess involve two
different people that don't trust each
other the best use gay support okay coke
extracts I don't really yeah token
contracts it seems like it's just a
company whose might as well just be
selling gift cards or be running a World
of Warcraft server type thing you just
have their own service it doesn't I
don't see what the value of having on
public watching other than you get to
say the magic word blockchain and ICO
and get thirty million dollars in five
minutes but if you're doing a setting up
a service where two counterparties can
meet each other and not have to trust in
a third party then that's where I see
the value in the public Chang and if you
could have a registry of like apartments
that are open I went to Hong Kong last
year and space there's ridiculously
expensive like for a 600 square foot
room it was thousands of dollars a month
so if you wanted to sublet that out you
could list it on a registry and then
somebody else could get it off the
registry and meet meet up without having
to involve third party that'd be really
cool use case 





Christian Seberino:
sure and I'm still in the
land title's like we were talking about




Cody Burns:
yeah public land title's reducing the
overhead on that would be great for
futures contracts that was one of the
first things I was thinking about what
PTC was uh with the miners being able to
uh I guess do more or less time locking
futures contracts what sell in their
hash someone could pay pay a miner a
hundred et Cie today and then the miner
would mine into a contract and they pick
it up on at the end of the month
money would be released to their
accounts so you'd pay 100 e.t.c today
for 180c at the end of the month and
then the miners like finance their stuff




Christian Seberino:
so I like legs that would that be for
like insurance 




Cody Burns:
Oh more or less financing
for it that's the hardest part with any
commodity is whether you're drilling for
oil or growing crops the hardest part is
the startup because if you're a farmer
and you're trying to raise corn you
don't know what the price of corn is
going to be at the end of it so you
don't even know if it's worth your
effort but that's for contracts and
future contracts take that mystery out
of it someone can a baker can buy hay
the farmer now yeah the end-user can pay
a fixed price today and they'll know
there have a guaranteed supply whenever
they need it and the former can get the
money today so that he doesn't have to
worry about oh if I grow this corn and I
sell in the futures price going up or
down it's pretty much a closed system 



Christian Seberino:
so
there'll be a secure and efficient way
to fund mining the expansion of mining
ETCs




Cody Burns:
yeah if you're someone who's trying to
run a mining business they don't really
care I guess I guess that's the right
way of saying they care about the system
but to them it's it's about the money
they have cost they have overhead they
had yes they need to run they have
people they have to pay and if you're
constantly living hand-to-mouth of
you've mined all monthly itself your
electricity that's just stress where you
don't have yet to plan ahead I mean it's
always good to plan ahead whenever you
doing expansions but if you knew that
you could mine and that the contracts
were filling themselves and paying out
the people who have already given you et
Cie and you're a profitable mining
company and you're reputable someone
could pay you for you know you're gonna
you know for a fact you're going to mind
3,000 et Cie more or less by the end of
the month you could get that at the
beginning of the month and pay your
bills do everything you want and keep
your lights on and not have to worry
about the backside of it because
everything's taken care of on smart
contract


Christian Seberino:
 makes sense 



Carlo Vicari:
right right 



Christian Seberino:
now
do you have any worries or concerns for
ETCs as Carlos said you've been here
since the beginning a year ago and we've
done a lot of good work
is there anything kind of that it
worries you 




Cody Burns:
uh lack of uh the user
front-end still has a long way to go
I said everyone's really excited about
it but I don't think that many people
are you are using it as much as they're
just trading it okay just because we
don't really have any good interfaces
for it we have the the web front-end and
parity is really good and the miss
client works if you hold your mouse
right and tie some wires together and
make stuff work but there's not a
there's not a functional death front-end
for that's the emerald wallet whenever
it comes out this yep
one of its features is the if modular
design so you'll be able to plug into it
and make it makes application
development is that much easier
okay so right now there's not other than
parity there's really not a good way to
do multi-sig wallets that's one of the
best features that you could have



Christian Seberino:
 now
why don't you for the people that don't
know why don't you can explain what a
multi-sig wallet is and why why that's
so so great 




Cody Burns:
the multi-sig wallet is you
can make it like a checking account if
you want more or less you can have a
number of public keys that and then out
of that number you have a subset that
controls it so you can have two people
out of three and as long as two people
sign off on something then the what
would it go through or you could have a
- of - okay so say you have the simplest
- - would be like just backing yourself
up if you have a wallet on your phone
and a wallet on the computer and you're
going to make a transaction it takes
both wallets improving it in order for
it to go through so you can send it from
your phone and then approve it on your
computer 





Christian Seberino:
okay so how would that I'm just
thinking like so suppose we buy
shared an account all three of us so so
then I want to spend money on it and get
your approval both of your guys approval
how would you then send your signature
to my let's say parity node wallets to
make that happen



Cody Burns:
well if we all have parity then it's
just a simple click confirm where the
transaction comes through if we did it
two or three and we all were running
parity then it would have all it has all
three of our public addresses in there
and it has who is trying to send the
money and then either Christian or me or
whoever else is going to approve it just
clicks confirm and then as long as two
out of the three people will prove it
then it's good to go 




Christian Seberino:
okay and so but
you're the concern is that if you're not
all by coincidence running parity then
it's not quite so easy 




Cody Burns:
right then
everyone has to have the same ABI code
and plugged into either my ether wallet
or okay figure it out yourself and
figure out how to send to confirm and I
can realize the transactions going
through 




Christian Seberino:
okay okay all right so jelly I
think you I think we've covered
everything I can think of was there
anything else that we missed Carlo or to
ask or Cody's anything that we should
have asked you that you wish we asked
you do you want to say


Cody Burns:
 no any time you
want to talk about 





Carlo Vicari:
yeah um I mean I I
guess I just wanted to know maybe some
things that I know you brought up that
etc' doesn't necessarily have that
interface that's going on right now and
that's something that definitely splits
and everybody's working on with emerald
wallet
maybe we can brainstorm a little bit
right now and to have you know whoever's
listening out their ideas that we're
thinking about right now ways that etc'
can improve and things that we can do
since you're so integral to everything
that's going on with PTC um maybe we
could just uh think of some things right
now that we can improve upon and things
to do in the future you brought up one
of the key things which is you know
the emerald wallet which will fix a
whole bunch of stuff but what are some
other things that have been on your mind
as far as getting done 




Christian Seberino:
well like like to
do marketing 


Carlo Vicari:
to-do lists yeah yeah
marketing 





Christian Seberino:
how do you how would you
improve marketing what would you suggest
there 





Cody Burns:
uh do marketing probably be a good
start I don't feel like we we're
actually uh





Christian Seberino:
 like what do you want TV
commercials or what


Carlo Vicari:
 no 



Cody Burns:
well I know uh
DCG and grace grace go they're out there
they're pressing the flesh and meeting
with the industry makers and trying to
make things happen and that's great but
the on the ETH side there they sell the
shit out of that pretty much yeah they
take all the marketing with them
whenever they left like I said they're
having conferences and they're at weekly
weekly meetups with on all the major
cities and okay consensus is constantly
traveling around they're meeting with
industry leaders and that's the first
thing that they see is where the
etherium system this is what we do and
there's these other scrubs that are
classic don't worry with them 




Christian Seberino:
so for the
people that are listening you would like
it if people were meeting with industry
leaders and if that involved having more
conferences yeah whatever it takes to
meet the power brokers 





Cody Burns:
yeah meet the
power brokers but also the meetups are
important to being out there and
wherever you go to meet up just actually
talk about EPC and there's always give
me the initial I roll whenever you bring
it up but after that everyone has always
met it's been really nice about it 



Christian Seberino:
yeah
okay okay
yeah okay 




Carlo Vicari:
marketing need ups what else
you got 




Cody Burns:
a proven ughter user interfaces
the avoiding talking about price and
stuff on is the funnest part and like I
said that's the the traders are really
the only ones who are really into it
right now because that's the exciting
part but all three of us were here
whenever the price was 50 cents and we
would trade back and forth all the slack
though the price says it that
it's a great system without the
economics of it involved the price is
getting rise and price is gonna fall





Carlo Vicari:
 yes
very true



Christian Seberino:
 good


Cody Burns:
that doesn't change yeah it's awesome
technology 




Carlo Vicari:
I'm Jeff I'm definitely
guilty of that I had to bring up the
markets with it first thing I show well
it's such a crazy week how could I could
I just ignore the elephant in the room



Cody Burns:
yeah yeah I finally got my wife or start
uh doing Bitcoin and holding it the
first thing that happens it goes for
three thousand and twenty five hundred


Carlo Vicari:
are you serious 


Cody Burns:
yeah so I was like stop
don't sell it just wait going back up
well 



Carlo Vicari:
I I know I know we're not supposed
to talk about markets but I'll do it
anyway the funny thing is someone I
think it was a dairy or someone else
from DCG tweeted out that pitbull got on
CNBC and was talking about Bitcoin and
some was like huh this is it
it's it's over this is the job because I
think I think pitbull did the same thing
with the housing market in Canada they
like I have to I have to fact-check this
but apparently he got on like CNBC or
some other show and he's like yeah
Canada real estate is hot and then it's
just like fell through the floor like a
week later or something


Christian Seberino:
so so so somebody listening should talk
to pitbull then about et sees what
you're saying I know we don't want her
talking about et Cie



Carlo Vicari:
 no no no no no that
means at the end I don't want him
talking about atc ever again 


Christian Seberino:
gadget 


Carlo Vicari:
um
yeah so I thought that was that was
pretty funny but what else so we we got
the definitely marketing need ups the
user interface like you said you know


Cody Burns:
transaction phase are pretty low so
that's feel good 




Carlo Vicari:
yeah that is 



Cody Burns:
the my
lentils it'd be nice if everyone could
spread out their hash more that way we
don't have one that has thirty percent
of the hash rate 



Carlo Vicari:
that would be pretty
good 



Cody Burns:
not so not a sexy topic but just
general no minor that's sexy but
important






Carlo Vicari:
 so I there's some there's some
stuff that people are working on that's
like some smart pool
implementations that I think would be
really pretty cool stuff for the future
I don't know if you've heard anything
about that



Cody Burns:
 no heaven what's that 


Carlo Vicari:
uh it's
you know people that are working in
blockchain that are working on this
implementation that it's like
decentralized uh smart you know I don't
know exactly how it works since I'm
obviously the least technical here but I
know that it definitely helps with the
mining pool centralization yeah okay




Cody Burns:
well a lot of it I think what it is is
whenever you first be in the mining and
yours download the claim or miner or
whatever it is most people are just
getting it hitting start and letting her
rip you're not going through and
actually doing research on what the
different mining pools are why there's
more than one of them rights going with
the first ones they're loaded into the
system and then there's no reason to
change after they're already going with
it cuz they're getting payouts regularly
so it's not it's not like if you go to a
smaller pool that you get paid less you
get paid based off of whatever your hash
rate is no matter what the pool is yeah
so the danger is if ya
someone has 30% or 40% of the hash rate
then you're pretty much just relying on
this one miner and you get in situations
like Bitcoin is currently where one
miner can control the entire network
what everyone has




Carlo Vicari:
 now it seems like you
have a pretty good handle on mining and
mining questions I don't know if I could
throw a mining question your way I'd you
like I'll probably not be oh okay so the
whole thing that's going on with Bitcoin
and gian and ASIC boost and blocking
segments right mm-hm
so my whole thing is that I get the
people are upset that he's blocking seg
would but one of the whole things with
Bitcoin is proper incentives or not just
Bitcoin but you know everything that's
spawned from Bitcoin as well is that all
the incentives are lined up properly so
that it doesn't matter if someone tries
to act against the network because then
it doesn't make any sense
yeah right so Gyan develops this ASIC
boost thing and everyone's freaking out
about it but for me in the
your vision of what pure free market you
know capitalism that bitcoin is
shouldn't isn't the right answer for
everyone to reverse-engineer the asic
boost so that everybody has it and then
he says okay everyone has it doesn't
matter anymore
let's do Segway right yeah you wouldn't
that isn't that the the proper voluntary
way of all of this being carried out
without destroying the network uh yeah
or now 



Cody Burns:
now I think so I think the thing
is what if you once you activate
segments then you had to re-engineer
ASIC lose so that I had it's the
probability a little but but yeah
generally speaking I don't think that a
51% attack is feasible in today's market
just because the fit is high and then
whenever you actually did it everyone so
many people are watching the network
that it would pretty much you couldn't
get it to the Polonius and time to cash
out right right so I think it's much
more probable if you have I haven't
looked at what the hash rate of PTC is
lately but probably around two or three
Petra hashes but uh so if you had that
much or if you had half of it and you
attack the network and your whole goal
was you were going to mine your own
little private chain and then throw it
on the network and make a bunch of coins
to cash out by the time you did that
everyone probably realized what had
happened and the exchanges would walk
down or the price would have already
dropped so low that it wouldn't even be
worth it yeah for me it would be much
more economical if you could just if you
had that much hash just join the network
mine on it and then 





Carlo Vicari:
ya see my hope thing
he's definitely acting um selfishly but
the whole point of everything is that
people act selfishly and it just
magically works great yeah
everybody'll to me yeah to me he
developed something he did he
specifically developed something that
makes the network stronger to me it's up
to everybody else to catch up to him and
make his advantage moot and then when
his
Vantage's mood then he says okay guys
let's do segway 


Cody Burns:
right or am i just way
off base 



Carlo Vicari:
on that I still haven't asked
anyone I have to speak to more Bitcoin
centric people about this but it's just
a thought I had recently 



Cody Burns:
yeah mines is
my name is an arms race basically right
now on classic and regular and you can't
buy video cards anywhere that's the
point it's got at is where you can't we
can't do a six so the only way to do it
is have the best GPUs right right not by
the RX 570 or 580 or even 474 ATS
they're out of stock worldwide and as
soon as as soon as they hit Amazon or
Best Buy anywhere they're gone the same
day I know yeah Corey the he runs the
mine a mine for etc' and a couple other
chains his company started putting
together pre-built mining rigs that her
had for ATS enem and they released him
yesterday was 200 mega hashes a
plug-and-play
mining system and it took maybe two
hours and they were sold out Wow



Christian Seberino:
 so it's
easily the right business then 



Cody Burns:
yeah it's
right now it's crazy people are selling
their mining rings on Craigslist like
four thousand dollars and it's maybe a
thousand dollars worth of parts in it




Carlo Vicari:
yeah so for anyone that's listening and
was wondering who Corey is Corey has
been a huge part of the community as
well and shout out to miner topia as
well that's his his website that he
sells mining stuff from so maybe we'll
put a link to that in the description
below along with some of other relevant
links but uh so he sold out in how long
in two hours 




Cody Burns:
yeah it was by the time I
was I saw it on the slack and by the
time I drove home they were already I
couldn't get anything I'm currently the
market for a mining card if anyone has
any use okay don't panic it Cody W
Clarence calm I had four or five slots
open on my mining rig that I was
building okay Wow I was hoping to follow
today would be one of those times where
everyone released cards but it doesn't
look like 




Carlo Vicari:
yeah yeah and what are these
done to RX RX 570 yeah what's the best
one in your opinion 



Cody Burns:
the 570 I think is
the best as far as cost and cost per
mega hash the five ATS are nice but the
five Stephanies are the moneymakers more
or less 



Christian Seberino:
who is the manufacturer that
makes these



Cody Burns:
 AMD


Christian Seberino:
 okay 



Carlo Vicari:
and what what
should someone be paying for something
like that what's it what's a good price




Cody Burns:
if you find them in Best Buy or a fries
or a store you can paid probably a
hundred and ninety dollars maybe and 



Carlo Vicari:
so
should should should I be taking these
up right now cuz I see that Best Buy has
them in my area 




Cody Burns:
or something do that
where are you at I'll draw it




Carlo Vicari:
 I I don't
know maybe I'm getting like click on it
it's gonna say out of stock probably or
something right 





Cody Burns:
yeah but uh no right now
they're going on Amazon and eBay for
probably four or five hundred dollars of
these 




Carlo Vicari:
neo bits has it 4 to 11 




Cody Burns:
the 11
pitch backward there neo bids and uh 


Carlo Vicari:
I
think


Cody Burns:
 next August 



Carlo Vicari:
I'm back toward it
outright 


Cody Burns:
dude yeah how is that globally
the rainbow 



Carlo Vicari:
that's insane


Cody Burns:
so I mean let's say surprises comes
because I know those are awesome for VR
stuff if you have oculus or anything
like that those are the cards to have



Carlo Vicari:
now when did the 570s come out 




Cody Burns:
uh I'm
not sure I haven't been mining that long
I know it was recently like within the
last six months or so there 



Carlo Vicari:
okay so so
if I just like if I bought a warehouse
full of them six months ago I could be
selling them for three hundred dollars
each right now or something



Cody Burns:
 yep 



Carlo Vicari:
shoulda
bought that




Cody Burns:
 yeah well even though the
previous generation the for seven days
and four 80s they're they're still
really good they're in a lot of mining
rigs and you can't buy them anywhere
either okay well it's the I guess the
other side of the market the mining it's
pretty much works the same is trading
does the miners are going to move to
whatever is the most profitable coin
so if etherium is the one that's the
moneymaker right now
everyone's gonna pile onto that one
until the hash rate rises so much that
it breaks even with all the other coins
as the cash price shoots up and everyone
all the swing miners I guess what you
probably they're going to go to that
chain because etc' it's always had a
base hash rate but whenever the prizes
we more model miners pile on and then
whatever it goes down some fluff up to
other coins so slow combined command
higher calm is where you can check and
see what your where the best profit is
for whatever you're mining 




Christian Seberino:
so if you've
been pretty happy with the amount of
money you make mining versus the
electricity bills





Cody Burns:
oh yeah definitely pays for so easily




Christian Seberino:
okay so do you plan to keep scaling up
and do more and more mining if you can
because it it's profitable then




Cody Burns:
 uh
there's a point where I'm pretty much at
where my wife's gonna make me not have
stuff in the house anymore



Christian Seberino:
 sir yeah
eventually gets annoying to have the
allowed computers yeah 





Cody Burns:
yeah so right now
it's still in the corner so it's she's
gotten curious about it of why does it
seem I can keep buying more cars pouring
it's getting bigger bigger but it's not
today okay seriously what's going on
here
Hey 




Christian Seberino:
yeah I see 



Carlo Vicari:
so she's not he's not
worried about you yet so - 



Cody Burns:
yeah it's not
a nuisance yet it doesn't scare the dog
it's still more quiet than the than the
Roomba 



Christian Seberino:
so does it heat up the house
though 



Cody Burns:
uh no no not really I don't have
that many cards okay um I'm small-scale
my rigs trying to get six cards ville
what's difficult 




Christian Seberino:
anything 



Carlo Vicari:
he's trying
he's trying to get to the point where
his wife is worried about him yeah 




Cody Burns:
yeah
almost there


Christian Seberino:
anything and then you can you still need
to cover oh we miss 



Cody Burns:
nothing I can think



Christian Seberino:
of all right 



Carlo Vicari:
I think I come
all the bases 



Christian Seberino:
yeah yeah Thank You Cody
for all your wisdom and for sharing your
thoughts with us today
appreciate it thank





Cody Burns:
 well thank you for
having me on 


Carlo Vicari:
yeah absolutely
really uh great to have you on we'd love
to have you on again sometime as well as
everyone else from e.t.c dev and
everyone from participating on the
groats deep team from ihk anybody else
from the community that really
participates a lot I'm always open to
having you guys on the show so just
reach out to me on slack or on reddit or
any other way that you do know how to
reach me and I'd be I'd love to have you
on so for everybody listening I
appreciate the time you took to check
out the show and listen to everything
Cody SSA he's a great part of the
community and looking forward till the
next show guys yeah absolutely
Cristiano again Cody thanks again take
care guys good night
[Music]


Christian Seberino:
if you are passionate about anything
related to a theory of plastic
