# Let's Talk ETC: Joel Dietz - Distributed Governance & More.
**Carlo Vicari:**
hi everybody thank you for tuning into
let's talk ET c i'm your host karlovy
along with my co-host dr. christian
Severino christians would fill it in for
me for the last like five or six shows
so christian thanks a ton for being
there guys I was over in Japan Shanghai
and Malta Japan you know they just
pushed through uh you know completely
accepting Bitcoin as the form of payment
Shanghai everybody's into blockchain and
Bitcoin and all sorts of stuff and the
ECC community over there is awesome and
Malta was over there for the financial
cryptography conference and there's just
so much cool work being done in the
space right now um so just the one to
give you guys a brief overview you know
where I've been the last few months and
it's just a really exciting to see where
the space is going also I wanted to
touch upon especially like Shanghai
there was like three buildings full of
accelerators just doing all sorts of
stuff and a whole bunch of blockchain
accelerator stuff going on over there um
so also just to touch upon a couple of
things in reference to ET cie it's great
to be back and just to fill you guys in
on what's been going on this last week
we have two additional developers
joining the TC dev team and also if
anyone saw the news about Stanbury using
etherium just to let everybody know
they're actually using the et Cie chain
which is really exciting check out the
et Cie newsletter which was just
released on this week on the 13th for a
bunch of et Cie news and info and also
check out ecet see today that has a
bunch of articles and new stuff that's
going on in the HTC community so to get
down into it i'd like to introduce
everybody to joel deeps of swarm fund
and also a gent 'ok uh yes that's
correct your agenda Craig up




**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah
authentic group



**Carlo Vicari:**
so I mention well at
coin agenda last year in vegas and the
skies involved in a whole bunch of
blockchain you know stuff and he's just
a pill a pillar in the community and
doing all sorts of stuff all over the
world really cool guy great ambassador
for block chain and work out a lot of
awesome projects so crazy happy Anya's
show Joel thanks for joining us




**Joel Dietz:**
yeah very happy to be here 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah
definitely so yeah yeah so uh Joel kind
of if you could just give everybody a
little bit of a background and you know
um your general background and kind of
how you got to detect I guess 





**Joel Dietz:**
um yeah
sure i was one of these you know child
prodigy programmer started programming
at age six started you know taking
computer science classes a local college
at age 14 and that that sort of stuff so
I was familiar with a number of
different text acts and things like that
kind of eventually moved on to doing
some enterprise-e Software Architect
stuff for it became more about the
overall system design rather than any
specific technological implementation
and it was around then that I I was sort
of initially a Bitcoin skeptic to be
honest and then after reviewing other
attempted digital currency things I
understood why bitcoin had been
successful when other digital currency
attempts hadn't been and it largely has
to do with you know legal and regulation
stuff and then I when the etherium white
paper came out I just had what i call a
nerdgasm i read that i was like wow the
smart contract stuff can open up so much
and being for a long time in the
nonprofit sector really interested in
kind of public goods problems and you
know things like how do you save the
rainforest and you know how do you
create you know good overall ecosystem
things that encourage innovation and so
the idea that some of this smart
contract technology could be used to
solve some of these public goods
problems was extremely exciting to me I
started writing about reputational
network systems you know how the future
of organizational design I started doing
some evangelism for athyrium created
this sort of Silicon Valley athyrium
group with Christian feel great
thur casts an online educational smart
contract channel with your sponsor and
and just really was put all my energy
into that so that was sort of the
initial like whoa block chain is
something really real and exciting




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah
yeah like when it when it quit you know
I guess we all have that clear to moment
yeah so that it's funny that the room no
go ahead I just say




**Joel Dietz:**
 I went from a sort
of vague appreciation a Bitcoin but not
like a significant I never made a
significant investment to being like wow
etherium is really groundbreaking and
exciting at both a technological level
and that like a world global impact
level





**Christian Seberino:**
 yeah so yeah I say something so
you know yeah Joel it's kind of
interesting because the what you
described so you started out as a
programmer and some people style is that
they like to keep their head down and
write massive amounts of code but it
sounds like then you diverged into other
like thinking about the big picture and
education and so I I kind of see myself
kind of similar to that I I like
programming but then I also like
thinking of I don't know how you
describe the education bigger the bigger
issues at hand here so yeah so I think
we're kindred spirits in a sense there



**Joel Dietz:**
yeah yeah in that particular case it was
driven by you know business needs in the
organization's I was in where we had a
lot of programmers who were very good at
coding within their respective spheres
whether it was you know front-end
JavaScript or you know various types of
system level things and and there
weren't a lot of people who could put
the whole connecting pieces together and
also bring in you know large contracts
to like you know explain how these
technologies could be used to solve
needs that existed elsewhere so that was
sort of how am I career of all very
organically in that direction I would



**Christian Seberino:**
say okay cool very good 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah
definitely I mean we we have a chance to
talk a lot about et Cie while I was over
in vegas which was pretty awesome so
that was a pretty
interesting conversation between me you
and bellezza was Philip right




**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah
Philip pylorus one of my key business
partners here at the moment




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah yeah
Philip was a cool guy Joel's a great guy




**Christian Seberino:**
I drum way I do have one other question
if I just for fun yeah I want to ask you
so this idea of looking at the big
picture and thinking about the future
and that kind of path sometimes I would
have jobs where they just wanted the
type of person that keeps his head down
and bangs out boring code and and
sometimes I would be thinking of my mind
would be in all these other places and i
would i would get bored to death with
jobs and i was wondering if you kind of
had that experience that sometimes you
get bored really easily and you can't
you can't do certain p dias jobs because
your minds always thinking of other
things 



**Joel Dietz:**
um yes and no you know I you know
I have a couple academic degrees and you
know good grades and things like that so
I have known that you know at times
there's times where you just gotta
buckle down and say hey I have to
generate this you know 30 page report on
you know esoteric poetry in the 15th
century or something like that and then
and then that is a task that requires a
lot of focus and then there are times
when you can kind of rewind a little bit
and look at kind of big picture things
and in fact a lot of the early
implementations of etherium like systems
that I was involved in I noticed that
there was no one really rewinding a look
at the big picture and that they were
just like hey let's grind out a lot of
code looking at the decentralized energy
market for example and how all the
pieces will fit together I was involved
in I think two or three of the earliest
attempts to do that and i pointed out
hey guys you don't have the actual
economics of these systems figured out
like there are some core little problems
here that you're definitely going to
have to solve for this system actually
work and well I was with actually just
didn't want to hear that they were like
no we're just gonna write the code and
the clients are willing to pay for it
and you know no you know and and I was
like well then in
it's not really clear it's a business
it's not really clear it's going to
actually work even if the code works
because you know the economics may not
work but so sometimes that's a it's a
not a voice that people don't want to
hear and when you're able to do that and
I think that's something that's caused a
little bit of distance between me and
some other people and the etherium world
because I I'm happy to participate in
cycles but at the fundamentals I want to
see very clear value that's delivered so




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah so I guess this is a good time to
add you know you're talking about the
differences you have between athyrium
and the etherium world and stuff like
that so in reference to athyrium classic
you know et Cie um I know you've had you
know plenty of suggestions for the et
Cie community and something you're like
really good at enough you know i'm
looking at a white paper right now
that's in reference to liquid democracy
which is you know hot topic for ET see
these dates as far as what direction the
community wants to go in or doesn't want
to go in so what are some of your your
thoughts or uh some things you have to
say to the blotching community about
liquid democracy and governance systems
and stuff like that




**Joel Dietz:**
 um I mean I i run a
group on that and carry a lot so
ultimately I have a lot to say about
that topic 



**Christian Seberino:**
start said yes yeah let's
start sizable so 





**Carlo Vicari:**
so what are some things
like let's say let's say you you were
you know all about you know let's say
you just had a huge chunk of ET c and
and you wanted to see it go in a
particular direction your your your the
the Emperor vtc I guess which is
something with nobody wants obviously
since this is a decentralized community
and there's so many different people but
for hypothetical just what are the
things you in your like expert opinion
will say that you'd like to see or
things that you suggest for the et Cie
community or any blogging community for
that matter 




**Joel Dietz:**
oh well you know like many
people who are in the blockchain world I
you know I like to see things appreciate
in value I like to see technological
innovation
and I like to see things that are like
exciting to me you know so either
participates I project you know
participate in tend to be the ones that
I feel like are really making some
significant impact through the
technology that they're building and and
I personally have been I always a
disappointed because I know things take
their time but I have always wanted to
see large-scale DAP systems that provide
real value you know and the fact that
there's been a lot there's been a few
things you know that are interesting in
the etherium world and I follow them and
tons of interesting prototypes and
concepts and stuff like that it come out
but as far as like working apps that are
providing a significant service and
value like we don't even really have the
Satoshi dice of you know athyrium yet
and you know that was like maybe not the
most amazing innovative thing ever in
the Bitcoin world but it was something
that a lot of people used and kind of
enjoy playing with and you know right
did something at least that provided
some kind of at least show showed the
world that something could be done there
so that's something that I think is like
I don't know this was maybe
temperamentally but I like to have those
things that have that kind of coherent
value and so if I was the Emperor of ET
cie that's probably where I would like
push things because you know they're
very foundation and everyone else's is
doing a great job at buildings like
enterprise consortiums and you know
making friends with you know all of
these big companies and and I think
that's very valuable in and of itself
particularly for the name recognition of
etherium more broadly which probably
benefits et Cie as well frankly you know
I think I think you know that that's
what that's so that's like as far as the
ultimate thing that I that's what i
would say it really would be the same
thing for a theorem itself if i had a
greater degree of control there i would
emphasize the functional implementations
that had sort of real users as well as
how to get capital behind them that kind
of is that's another thing is you know
have to encourage entrepreneurs to get
out there and build something and be
appropriately vested in the kind of
result and have you know because it's
sometimes it's like et Cie the token
will benefit as so long as their
projects benefit and an individual
project owners will benefit so those
things all kind of have to be aligned
with each other so 




**Christian Seberino:**
so now can I say can
I see something so I think none of the
things you say was that we so you want
the block chain space to keep growing
and you said you especially are
interested in large smart contracts
those as they're called distributed
autonomous organizations do you think
that that will happen just organically
that people will first do simple
contracts and then make better tools to
design caught smart contracts and then
it'll just they'll slowly get more
complex but we're just at the beginning
stages and that's why we don't have the
super complex or contracts today





**Joel Dietz:**
 I think
it's a number of things you know one of
them and I guess I'll just be a critical
but hopefully educated voice here is
that you know when you're doing certain
types of software delivery you know you
need to have a high degree of like
internal quality control kind of as you
go along and I don't know if that was
always done in the kind of actual
implementation for instance with the
solidity language itself or that are too
many kind of breaking changes made over
time so that you know things are always
a little bit in flux in the new
potentially catastrophic errors can kind
of surface along the way so that that is
something that is problematic because
you know if you're building for long
term you want the building blocks that
you're building with to be very secure
so that then you can build things you
know that are secure on top of it
whereas if the building blocks
themselves are in flux and not
particularly well audited and controlled
and things like that then like yeah as
soon as you go out to build something
with solidity if you're not sure that
the compiler is working correctly then
you know the whole thing can blow up
gardless of whether or not you made in
there you know because the compiler self
can have an error in it you know that
that's a huge problem for anyone
building in this ecosystem at all and
you know and I ultimately it's like a
quality control issue it's like you know
at that at that low level do we actually
have the quality control that we can be
sure that these things are working and
obviously if you can't then you can't
build large steps you can't even really
build small gaps that are production I
deep fried it doesn't matter the size
you know yeah



**Christian Seberino:**
 so I think you would I
think would you agree so the Dow was
almost something like the Dell was
almost inevitable a blow up like that
and then everybody now says okay now we
better rethink how we do smart contract
programming and so now they're people
are looking into functional programming
and all these other right techniques to
make more secure contracts 




**Joel Dietz:**
I don't know
if it was inevitable it was may be
inevitable given the way that the system
evolved in the sense that you know there
was a lot of breaking changes made along
the way without a lot of necessarily
auditing and attention to those things I
don't know if the theory and foundation
could have done that better you know I
don't particularly have a strong desire
to be a critic of the Syrian foundation
or any the process they used I wasn't
intimately involved in that I did offer
to be in a couple of points and but you
know I wasn't ultimately involved in any
of those decisions so um so I know it's
hard to say but yeah yeah give it given
the whole way that the ecosystem worked
and the heap cycles and everything else
yes it was inevitable that a bunch of
hype would be poured onto something that
at the low level was not did not have
secure building blocks underneath it and
that it would explode and then kind of
causes larger problem for the whole you
know kind of system 




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah yeah so in
argument is your how does your liquid
democracy a project how does that help
with making better and more
sophisticated smart contracts or does it
touch some other aspect of that
where 




**Joel Dietz:**
well um I'd say




**Carlo Vicari:**
 it's more
governance related I suppose is that
right



**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah I mean the two are related in
the sense fear iam basically chose a
non-profit foundation in Switzerland as
its governance structure and if I
remember correctly there were nine board
seats on that nonprofit board and
vitalik at three and other people had
the other six and that was basically how
it you know made decisions I don't know
it's been very well to document it or
publicize but you know it is a kind of
core element in etherium as like how
does a theory and foundation make
decisions how does it decide whether or
not to recommend a hard fork at any
given moment you know grab eastleigh the
miners and kind of how the miners are
going to react is very important but
also there are people who are basically
responsible legally and otherwise for
making certain types of decisions so
that you know that structure and who's
on that board and all that are kind of
critical components and it's possible
with you know different structures that
you have just different results based on
the nature of that structure so for
instance if you put only developers on
that board you know you're going to get
a certain type of results because it's
going to be totally driven by tech
people if you put only regulators and or
bankers for that matter on that board
totally different type of decisions that
those people are going to make and you
know ultimately I think you want some
alignment between the desire of people
for instance in etherium which in a
crowd sale and what those people's
desires are and expectations were so
that you know they're generally
fulfilled with the structures with the
governing structure so that in the boxer
yeah the thing like liquor go ahead
liquid let me just finish this thought
so liquid democracy potentially at least
you know allow some kind of
reconciliation of that in the sense that
it can be a little bit more of an
organically evolving governance
structure and frankly batala suggested
similar things around having a dhow
govern
cerium instead of a foundation but I
don't know if that's feasible at this
point anymore but he did suggest that at
some point the but yet to have the
structural thing be aligned so that
basically the people who care about the
network are the people and have vested
stake in the network I think you've seen
the white paper there's also the sense
of like locking in your stake for an
extended period of time to show that you
know you're actually having you know a
long-term stake in the network instead
of just some coins today that you plan
to sell tomorrow but that to have those
people have the long-term stake actually
be those who are participating directly
in the decision making yeah so right and
in that sense like you don't have to
necessarily know you know pretora like
think that you know exactly what those
people want you know you can just act
them because the you're not even asking
them they are deciding themselves what
happens with the future of that
organization so that's the idea behind




**Christian Seberino:**
it here's here's what I was here's what
I want to really wanted to ask you I
think I know a way to make more concrete
okay in addition to bad technology
blowing up a blockchain I think you
would agree that the people the
organizational structure could blow up a
block Jane that's another thing to be
concerned about I'm thinking
specifically of like the the Bitcoin
block sighs debate so the one that maybe
this could make it more concrete suppose
the Bitcoin community read your white
paper and they believed in it so they're
going to do your liquid democracy you
know a proposal how would how could that
conceivably help them with the this
debate that's never ending




**Joel Dietz:**
 well I
dressin enough I try to build a you know
voting mechanism on the Bitcoin
blockchain early on knowing that it
wouldn't be the best platform for
building something like that because
it's not really designed for it but you
know you can pass metadata along with
Bitcoin transactions and do something
like that and it was functional and but
the key part of what I'm describing is
that it is a steak weighted vote
system so you know it really depends on
the steak that you have in the network
that then or whatever a dowel structure
that then makes it possible so the and
interestingly enough you know the
Bitcoin foundation could have done
something like that i don't think the
Bitcoin in a foundation did anything
particularly innovative potentially ever
as far as i can tell but at least the
technological level besides maybe like
figuring out how to like make money
disappear um but particularly I opinion
of those people and they never gave me
any money for the work I did for them
either so I don't um but but the
ultimate kind of effect you know that
they could have done something like that
you know they could have said hey look
you are buying into the future of the
Bitcoin foundation and we're going to
set up a transparent voting mechanism
where depending on the snake that you
have in Bitcoin that's the stake that
you know you'll have a decision making
and then we're going to basically
organize the decisions on for instance
how whatever Bitcoin core does on this
neck on this way rather than having like
hey one big companies gonna hire a bunch
of developers and that company is gonna
basically try and decide based on their
you know wisdom of their CEO or whatever
other grounds you know that this is the
way Bitcoin should go and i think i
think it's um yeah all right i think the
whole thing is is that i'm actually bury
i'm watching these debates very
carefully myself because I think it's
illustrative a lot of things but you
know ultimately I think there's a big
problem in that what things are kind of
already in motion and it's very hard to
change direction and it's actually sort
of the reason you know even though the
theorem right if the Internet has a
foundation already finally they can just
the foundation can necessarily just
disappear and that's one reason why I
got excited about a theorem classic is
that it just sort of exists it came out
of existence out of nowhere without
actually any clear way
deciding how it was going to evolve so
it's sort of like well there's actually
less that's already been established in
the case of etherium classic than in
many other places




**Carlo Vicari:**
 where um where where
would you like to see ideally crypto
governance in say like 20 years what's
your your fairy tale for for crypto
governance is it an amalgamation of
something that you've got going and some
other stuff you've heard about or you
know what are you what's your vision for
crypto governance in the distant future





**Joel Dietz:**
um well I personally don't like voting
interesting let off even on building
voting systems because it takes time and
I have a lot of time there's other
things and the main problem about voting
is you need to i usually have to educate
yourself about the decision that you're
making where you feel like you're making
a decision and that's like you know i
don't know what's going on all the
proposals in california a local city
council and you know what's best for the
global climate water level you know
error you know all these things that's a
lot of things to be educated about so my
hope is that we can figure out some
system in the crypto world that sort of
generally works for empowering people
who really do know about those things
that are specialists in the area and
also have the best interests of the the
people they're representing in mind that
we can kind of have that be successful
for instance for governing blockchain or
kind of ecosystem in the crypto and
actually branch that out into the rest
of the world to actually make a
significant amount of impact around
places that aren't doing a particularly
good job of that at the moment 




**Carlo Vicari:**
well I
also saw in your your paper um you
talked a lot about you know delegated it
is kind of what you're talking about as
far as having someone that is trusted to
go over all these because obviously
we're in such the early stages people
can actually you know like in dash
people can vote but when a chain gets
big enough there's just gonna be so many
things going on that some sort of
delegated scheme is gonna have to be
developed is that what you're talking
about 





**Joel Dietz:**
totally and you know and experts
as well can be humans or they can be AI
or they can be some kind of fusion you
know I think ultimately there's a lot of
type of things even driving is a good
example to some degree there's a
governance issue in my car every time I
Drive because it's like which way am I
gonna turn and how fast am I gonna go
those are decisions that could be made
and i would i would gladly give that
away you know to someone else it was
gonna do that for me well you know



**Carlo Vicari:**
 right
exactly


**Joel Dietz:**
 so to the extent to which you
know I there can be intelligent you know
decision-making that's done with a
minimum of input on my part and some
accountability for it I think that those
are sort of the broad goals i have and i
think liquid democracy particularly is a
good system not just because it's
transparent and it allows delegation
those are really good elements to it but
also because it does allow you know for
automation and it can integrate with
other elements like you know Futhark ii
or some of these prediction Mike's
market-based decision-making like I'm
very excited about some of these other
things as




**Christian Seberino:**
 well yeah I see you should I
think you would agree that or maybe or
do would you agree that so to solve the
direct democracy problem which which you
mentioned is that everybody has to
become familiar with every every bill
that we have the vote on that so right
the way that governments solve that have
solved it for centuries right is
representative democracy where we vote
for people that we trust and they they
are there the subject matter experts
that vote on our behalf so there's a lot
of precedent I think for what you're
suggesting which right representative
democracy basically we'd have to discuss
how to elect those representatives in a
in a in a secure right safeway but then
I think the other way when I was going
to say 



**Carlo Vicari:**
I think the cool thing about also
the liquid democracy democracies in
crypto is
wait the weight of each vote you know
someone that has you know a five percent
stake in the network being able to make
a larger portion of the decision than
someone who has like one Satoshi 




**Christian Seberino:**
yes but
the obvious question that yeah the
obvious question that the audience wants
to ask or I want to ask is well so
what's to stop somebody some wealthy
person then write an oligarchy right
what people that have the most coins are
gonna dominate all the voting



**Joel Dietz:**
 um yeah I
mean it 



**Carlo Vicari:**
go ahead y'all sorry



**Joel Dietz:**
 um yes your
are you're right and actually that's
what happens already you just maybe
aren't aware of it but at least in the
United States it's pretty obvious that
that's what's going on but they do it
back channel through you know campaign
donations and other things like that
where it's not as transparent or certain
aspects are more transparent so I think
in some ways even if you just make this
is no I don't particularly love the
system as it currently exists but i
think that have you just made the system
that as it exists today totally
transparent you would still be making
huge improvement over oh but currently
exactly 




**Carlo Vicari:**
I think the I think another big
point I think ok so in reference to the
viewers wondering or the listeners
wondering about oligarchies and stuff
like that I think a lot of the oligarchy
structure joelle correct me if i'm wrong
i think a lot of the oligarchy structure
comes from you know almost a monopoly on
power and the amount of inflation that
they can create you know in the sense
that they don't raise taxes and they
don't do this that the other thing but
they end up just doing monetary
inflation to fund all these crazy things
that people would normally agree to but
with crypto since you can't inflate it
away it's not like the network as a
whole would would agree to some of these
insane things that governments you know
not just here but governments all over
the world you know create this inflation
to to create these monstrous you know
machines of war and all these kinds of
kinds of crazy things what do you think
don't let me



**Joel Dietz:**
government as software you know
obviously I'm programmer so it's natural
for me to do that but you know and
software like you know internet explorer
or something like that five point oh you
know has exploits people are designing
exploits for it they're gonna figure out
how they can install their spyware on
top of it and you know get you to click
through the term so that you know it's
like this biggest bloatware ever and i
think it's basically what we have today
and what your scribing is like this
exploit that exists on central banks
that like i can have swagga have an
excellent it's just yeah I mean it's
basically what it is it's like oh well
I'm gonna go this is what happen 2008 it
and it'll probably happen again in my
opinion in many places oh my goodness
I'm gonna go put my money in these
highly risky things it's all gonna
disappear crash the whole economy please
like can you just push the button that
Prince more money and send it to me and
then it's like oh I guess we have to do
that you know and 




**Carlo Vicari:**
so honestly that's one
of the funniest things I've ever heard
about central bank like the next time
i'm online and I see someone having you
know how people get really heated and
have like an emotional heart attack over
it yeah I'm just gonna make like a
really short and post son just say it's
just a hardware bug bro I got something
well Joe okay it's a questo in Patrol I
have a question for Joelle DS have a
question about





**Christian Seberino:**
 so um I'm seeing I've
seen parallels in just a regular away
from keyboard democracies here so about
the oligarchy problem so my sense is
that the the rich and powerful don't
have complete control right I'm thinking
like a brexit and the populist movements
all over the world not now in France and
so if if ATC had somebody that was
wealthy that was doing crazy things
presumably all US little plebeians would
all get together and say hey we gotta we
gotta all vote together to go against
right this this wealthy person that's
messing things up and so that happens in
the other world and so that that's that
that would happen presumably in
in cryptocurrency space right




**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah
absolutely and you know you have
factions that build and it's natural to
have that over different interests even
if those interests are just you know
different opinions about priorities so
like for instance a Peter tegel put
money into our network democracy stack
and Elon Musk put it in and they each
genus I put in I don't know 50 million
dollars and then you know but um us
thinks that we should prioritize going
to Mars first and Peter Thiel thinks we
should like prioritize building like an
island prototype government you know in
the Pacific or something a floating
island you know like okay like these are
just priority in none of them is wrong
per se personally I support both
initiatives I think they're both really
interesting things and you know but yeah
there the prioritization and then people
can kind of create factions around
everythings and if Elon Musk computer
till time together but together they
only own twenty percent of the network
and then you know the rest of us can
band together when smaller part and then
say sorry guys but we think it's way
more important to actually just like
build some public roads infrastructure
or own country before we build like a
high-speed rail system because we have a
bunch of potholes you know so 




**Christian Seberino:**
so
insurance would you agree with me that
so liquid democracy blockchains in
general can improve the the political
process but they're not necessarily
going to remove all the messiness of
human interaction right and debate
they're just going to prove it may be
out maybe it'll be harder to abuse and
commit fraud in the block chain space
but your people are still going to be
people it's not going to completely make
a utopia that's really all 




**Joel Dietz:**
um yeah I
mean I personally think conflict is a
part of life and generally speaking a
kind of positive thing in the sense that
you know sometimes ideas need to be
tested you know in the in the public
sphere and had go through a debate
process and you know maybe having
I emotional content behind them is not
always helpful but yeah it's a part of
life so the fact that the stuff and you
know frankly I enjoy playing like war
games and things like that too so like
having little battle so in ways that
people are actually dying is probably
not that bad either




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah you again you
got add me on chest of friends I don't
know okay I'm sorry um what was I say oh
so I guess now we have the like the
20-year ten-year picture which was
pretty funny about your comment that
inflation is just like a hardware bug or
a software bug or whatever but um in
reference to ET see what what Arsenal
judging 



**Joel Dietz:**
what I do want to clarify that
since I don't think inflation is
interesting monetary policy question
when I refer to is printing money and
giving it to the people who are causing
the financial crisis so right that I
will say 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah that's what I meant to say
that okay so so the bailout in 2008
bailout was just a hardware bug which is
pretty funny cuz yeah I don't mean
literally inflation since even you know
Bitcoin all the crypto currencies are we
inflating I guess you could say Oh even
though they are capped limit but in in
reference to ET SI jo like what are some
suggestions or things you'd like to see
from the ET c network that or
suggestions you have for you know
anybody listening out there that the
community as a whole 




**Joel Dietz:**
well um i think for
EDC to be continually relevant you know
it needs to attract projects that are
doing real things so and providing real
value i think the stamper reason that
you guys mentioned is is a great example
of that so just to show that it can be
stable itself and have a good you know
team behind it doing that I think
there's a great opportunity you know for
doing something innovative in the realm
of governance you know I saw the
proposal that came back from I ohk and
you know it's kind of like the dash
model applied to a theorem classic which
um you know to something Ruiz been done
before and would be tricky to do and it
classic thing so I have sort of mixed
feelings about it but I think there's an
awesome opportunity for doing something
actually innovative around governance
and in general trying to keep like a
positive environment you know I think
people from the main athyrium community
sometimes perceive and I've heard to
several times the team classic is just
being a bunch of traitors or try and
make money or people who are like full
of animosity towards whoever and I think
even through the elements of those
things like it's not necessarily that
helpful it's better to focus on kind of
you know the positive energy of doing
something really innovative that's
providing value to something and then
there can be a sort of differentiating
point that etherium classic as opposed
to the you know a theory and foundation
supported version of it 




**Carlo Vicari:**
what are some of
the suggestions you have in reference to
the I ohk um treasury model that was
kind of you know like you said based on
dash but had some you know improvements
to polls that they saw and tweaks and
tips and stuff like that



**Joel Dietz:**
 well I just
thought that the whole embedding it in
the blockchain level is very interesting
what kind of risky given where ET c is
at the moment in given the fact that
they said it would take like a year to
deploy and implement so like i don't
know exactly what the timeline wasn't i
made sure there was like a full timeline
presented for for that but that was my
main kind of concern and if you were
going to do that frankly i think would
be better to do on a clean athyrium
based chain and do it as a test project
you know see how it works and then yeah
like kind of start from scratch with
that ties you achievable 




**Christian Seberino:**
so the question
about that I that I'm doing that
actually ties into another question I
wanted to ask you which was so
enforcement of voting so obviously if I
decide tomorrow that I don't believe in
paying my income taxes the government
has guns and they can come and make me
do it even though I don't agree with
and so we could make all these brilliant
voting systems and some you know how if
people just say well I don't care what
the vote how it turned out I'm just
gonna do what I want how to and you
would probably say if I understood you
correctly that mistake right you you're
putting some skin in the game and that's
how you do enforcement and so they're
related to that to what you guys were
just talking about the reason i think
the treasury model the thought was you
have to put it at a lower level so that
you can't just make it a smart contract
that you everybody ignores right 




**Joel Dietz:**
well
yeah and i host to meet up on dash i
have dash and you know i'm i love that
model so at that level i totally agree
it's just a tricky thing to implement
technically given all the way that the
blockchain exists today for in plastic
be important to keep in mind there and
dashes of exams looses as well as you
know the positive incentive so you know
view obviously collecting taxes is is
difficult and and particularly across
the whole block channel existing stake
but you know if you can create some
positive incentive and this is sort of
the liquid democracy dao stuff with
steak way to sort of it meant to
encourage this is like hey you're buying
a stake in the network but that steak
you know can appreciate in value you
know if their stuff that's being created
that part of that Network that then you
know augments the value of the whole
network so in that sense um it's a sort
of second layer you know it would be
like if you have something that is
governing the protocol / you know lower
level blockchain layer that's kind of
exists already and that's being done and
then a separate thing that's sort of
governing the application layer and
incentivizing people to kind of build in
that application layer so that's how I
saw kind of what we're doing and you
know I haven't been super spending a lot
of time in pushing it on the etherium
classic community I did talk with Barry
Silbert briefly and I don't know if he
totally understood what we were trying
to do but
you know that sort of the sort of way
I've been approaching this conceptually




**Christian Seberino:**
ok so if I understood you correctly
you're saying that you could use
positive incentives rather than negative
so presumably the analogy would be the
government instead of coming with guns
to make me pay my income tax they could
say well if you do pay your income
everybody that pays our income tax gets
a free car next year that's a ridiculous
example but that's kind of what you're
saying I think that you don't need you
don't need guns to make




**Carlo Vicari:**
 sounds like cash
for clunkers actually kind of what



**Joel Dietz:**
 they
did actually look like a laskin example
of that here in the USA it's like or
Norway for that matter but hey you move
to Alaska and then you get a share of
all the oil whatever other revenue
that's generated from Alaskan let you
know so they actually pass that back to
Alaska and you know citizens 



**Christian Seberino:**
you rather
than make a long and yet the law that
says there's a certain quota that has to
move to alaska every year right




**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah
exactly have you just forced everyone to
go laughs at the 





**Carlo Vicari:**
way I think of that
with people from Alaska getting paid
from the oil I almost think of it like
they're the land that they own or meet
the fact that they have an address is
almost like a token to receive a
dividend I suppose that's kind of that
oh it's kind of what that would be



**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah
that's how I think about it too and in
fact making it sort of steak weighted
makes a lot of sense and say well
depending on that not just like the
amount of land but the amount of in
personal investment you put into making
Alaska work is right with the commerce
patch then as knowing proportional
effect on the amount that you get back
when you know you know




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah I was over
that actually brings up another good
point that I wanted to talk about from
your white paper ah now I read some
stuff about like tying it into real
assets and land and stuff like that so I
don't know if you could expand upon that
for for anyone listening oh also for
anyone listening we're gonna post joel
is it good to post a link to the white
paper in the description below or is
this anna still under wraps




**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah
absolutely and yeah like I can even
publish the latest version on github so
that you have
an easy okay great 




**Carlo Vicari:**
cool cool that would
be great um 




**Christian Seberino:**
so you're dealing with a
heart problem so I commend you for
trying to tackle a difficult something
that hasn't been solved yet 



**Carlo Vicari:**
sorry yeah
so it was in reference to UM the real
assets was right




**Joel Dietz:**
 yeah yeah yeah yeah
actually answer the second question
first is like the tall look really
inspired me when I was organizing the
Silicon Valley meet up and we had a
presentation from him on hard problems
and crypto economics and I just saw how
he thinks about problems and it is like
here are all the hardest problems and
you know the six securing underlying you
know Bitcoin blockchain layers and
things like that I was like started
using similar methodology for you know
macroeconomics and other type of
problems we're just sort of here are
some big problems and you know maybe
some of this new technology and stuff
can be used to to fix it one that I've
been knowledgeable about forever is you
know fiat currency you're talking about
it before the fact that central banks
could just print money and they have a
bad history of doing this you know in
crises and and sometimes that's totally
destroying their own economy as a result
no so and creating the total wrong set
of incentives in the economy as well and
one thing that has existed in the past
is asset-backed currencies gold and
other things like that but interesting
way that those things evolved you know
is that originally they had the gold the
gold itself is you know fungible and
scarce and you know has a kind of
intrinsic value so the precious metals
or natural choice and then they pay for
a ties that you know they digitize the
goal respectively except that they
didn't have digital stuff they had paper
so that's kind of how the process of
evolution worked and yet there's kind of
a more natural kind of source for hard
stable value because gold actually
doesn't have particularly stable value
and that is real estate and particularly
the you know land you know MA appreciate
in value there are ways to get in a lane
that can appreciate in value fairly
rapidly but by and large particular if
you have a large pool of real estate and
particularly spread across multiple der
legal jurisdictions other things like
that we presume to be have a relatively
stable value as an underlying asset base
so and I happen to really like this
because I'm not just a computer nerd but
I'm an economic and sort of geopolitical
nerd and and there's a huge you know
problem in having a global stable unit
of account not just in a theorem type
you know solutions where you know you
might want to have some kind of stable
coin that you use to make your
predictions in a prediction market or
whatever else thinks that it's like you
know your assets are denominated in and
everything else like that but within the
sort of global economy as a whole you
know say I'm in some you know economy
where I'm not sure I trust the central
bankers not to just print a bunch of
money and then cause our economy gan
hyperinflation might make sense to
actually park some of my money in
something that is a more stable kind of
hold of value so that is something that
I love as a concept and this type of
technology allows and allows very
concretely in the sense that if you can
have a sort of Dow like structure or the
liquid democracy to go out and purchase
land and then effectively the value of
your shares in that liquid democracy
because the value of the underlying
assets you know potentially plus the
future value and the kind of you know
governance layer but you have a kind of
hard assets that are kind of underneath
that and one particular thing that is
near and dear to my heart as well and
apparently some other people were
working with in Brazil now is that it
can be used for a conservation of like
rain forest and other things like that
too because you know people will buy
into a particularly high net worth
individuals who are kind of socially
conscious as well they recognize Hey
look I breathe air in every day the
reason I prayer air to breathe in is
because there's these trees and you know
I mean rain forests that are like you
know basically creating it for me so do
you need to try to be your whether you
who are conscious of it or not you're
part of by virtue of your human biology
system etc you're part of a larger
ecosystem and so you can you know
potentially create this whole virtuous
cycle around that so thank you
interesting 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah definitely down 




**Christian Seberino:**
I'm
kind of the question yes sir um so we
started one of the things we said way
back at the start of our conversation
was technological blow-ups so I'm you
want to make any comments about security
right people trying to gain your voting
system thinking of ways to subvert it




**Joel Dietz:**
yeah um it's definitely a concern I have
both you know at the lower level code
level and the other thing and I think
the way that we've evolved is to you
know alongside the code deploy kind of
the intent of the code and have a legal
framework in a kind of context of a
nonprofit that is you know meant to
basically enforce the intent of the code
in so far as you know it needs to be
that and I think maybe at some point we
can move off of a system like that but
for the time being you know it makes
sense to do this kind of with the
training wheels and also make sense to
like really only take people on to the
project that are really aligned with the
overall goals of the project in the kind
of long-term fashion and I think like we
had very similar intentions when we you
know launched say three years ago the
original concept as far as what we
wanted to do but a lot of the people who
were on you know they were still in this
sort of pump and dump kind of mindset a
little bit and and not really in it for
the long haul or they just didn't have
the stamina and you know things like
that so even and that's totally
understandable but I think we just want
a good container so
that we can be sure that we deliver on
the value that we intend to do so
thinking oh man and you know we're doing
this you know we're selling off not
unlike the Dow and you know the Dow
basically sold off a hundred percent of
the voting shares and then you know
everyone can buy everything we're
selling off you know a much smaller
percentage of that and so to a certain
degree it's much more like a start-up
where the founders retain control of it
a significant amount control and then
other people have a voice to kind of
interfere if the founders go a little
too far off so I think you I think in
that sense we're not trying to run it
like a crying you know democratic
experiment with you know everyone voting
on everything and you know having that
be a potential risk at the kind of
princess if we're buying Amazonian
rainforest at then some facts you know
and trying basically sell it burn it all
and then you know whatever yeah they
want to do so



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah like you said it's um
you know it's it's training wheels which
is a good stepping stone to actually
doing something you know even more
innovative in the future 




**Christian Seberino:**
I've gotten a
pretty good idea of what a better idea
of what you're doing have we have you
said everything you wanted to say I'm
thinking what I learned was so you
you're you're thinking about voting
mechanisms on the blockchain you thought
about it's basically representative
democracy to avoid burdening people with
too much work you talked about how
factions can fight all the oligarchy
concerns you talked about using positive
incentives instead of guns right
negative incentives to that you talked
about time things too too hard assets
have we have you said everything you
wanted to say does that cover pretty
much wallah 




**Joel Dietz:**
well yeah you would mention
out that you maybe we'll talk about the
end of the white paper which I sort of
comparisons to the Dow I don't know if
there's anything that stood out to you




**Carlo Vicari:**
there mom I got a chance to ask about
you know the differences as far as also
being you know based on potentially real
estate as well which was pretty cool
and you know based on I think the other
point that's in here is based on long
and short-term steak so we touch on that
and prototype reputational system on
that says trust currency so I don't
think we got a chance to talk about that
um ah I mean I guess you're talking
about some sort of rep system inherent
inside the liquid democracy 


**Joel Dietz:**
um well



**Carlo Vicari:**
as far as like good bad decisions and
earning reputation from that





**Joel Dietz:**
 no I'll use
the kind of hard assets thing to
illustrate that and and you know i think
the dow is interesting in the sense that
ha they had 150 million plus dollars you
know how would that that have been
allocated would it have gone to things
that provide real value and i think at
that time probably there weren't enough
of like legitimate value things to
really allocate that efficiently not the
end the governance mechanism maybe
wouldn't have actually loud for
efficient allocation kappa anyways and i
think by focusing on hard assets and we
have kind of curated t opportunities my
business partners are both sort of very
astute tech entrepreneurs I've gone into
finance to varying degrees you know we
have things that represent extremely
good opportunities with both in real
estate and elsewhere things like art
markets and the really cool thing this
is where trust currency comes in is you
know we can take the recommendation and
some other people to say hey like this
person happens to be really good at
deploying capital into real estate
rather than and this is actually
something like an angel a syndicate goes
like works a similar way where you said
this person seems to really know what a
good start up deals I'll just follow him
and then basically when he deploys
capital I'll also deploy capital so
right and you get a notification Sao do
you want to like follow along with this
deal that's happening in the game point
and vigorous lonely enough like nothing
like that really exists for a lot of
other aspects of the world you know I
think interest is doing it pretty well
but if I want to do that real estate
so and the reputation and Trust currency
is we're calling it is a really good way
of knowing whether or not someone is
actually a good person to follow or not
say oh this guy you can actually see
based on the reputation he's accrued in
the system whether or not it's actually
a good place to put your money so soon




**Carlo Vicari:**
cool cool um that is that is pretty like
um big dynamic that I think everybody is
expecting to be huge like in block chain
as far as like credit and reputation and
tying people to a whole bunch of value
in inside the system that they're not
being tied to you right now since all
these different reputation and credit
systems and investment you know a
person's investment history or these
things are all scattered amongst you
know six different companies or six
different databases but with a
blockchain all that would be tokenized I
guess you're saying in some sense and
tied together they get like a fur a
person's full if they wanted to a
person's full like investment history
and credit and everything would all be
tied together is that right um in sunset
in some sense or are not really 




**Joel Dietz:**
well you
know yes I mean in the sense that angel
list you know ties these things together
so right right it doesn't have to be
it's not going to be the only platform
for everything and you know right i
personally am sort of have a crypto and
it you know anonymity or pursued
anonymity as a goal with some things i
think that having multiple identities
can be useful for different things that
you might have like you know i have some
pepe cash actually and okay i'm
recommending which rare Pepe is to buy
you know I might do that under a
different avatar then you know some
other without doing real estate
recommendation so I think I think I'm
funny 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah you might want to keep those
pseudonyms separate that would be a good
idea right your buddies



**Christian Seberino:**
 the reason is
the reason that you brought up the Dow
Carlo and Joel because you were
concerned that there would or joel that
that people would they would compare
what you're doing to the to the dow and
so that's why you had to dress that





**Joel Dietz:**
um yeah it happened in the first time I
circulated these concepts okay people
said oh that's so the Dow two point O
with better governance and everything
else and then I you know realized that
it was worth explaining the ways in
which it was and wasn't like the dow




**Christian Seberino:**
okay yeah yeah I think I think it's a
shame that now every complex contract is
going to remind people of the Dow but I
think even people that maybe haven't
read the white paper just knowing that
you're acknowledging that that that
misunderstanding exists in your ear you
have arguments I think you know people
know that you're here doing something
about it it's not gonna be like the
doubt




**Carlo Vicari:**
 you we talked about it at the very
beginning of the show I want to ask you
a little bit more about agenda it's
called right agenda the sustainability
alliance between the UN and and block
chain and stuff like that 





**Joel Dietz:**
yeah um a
gentle group is doing great stuff right
now and really building you know a kind
of portfolio over you know high level
advice on blockchain usage to you know
central bankers and kind of governance
you know around the world and I was
really fortunate to work with them on
this Brazil project and there were a lot
of people there you know from though the
World Bank and you know people doing
stuff at the UN and other sort of
international organizations and a lot of
momentum that came out of it so much so
that we created this sort of change the
world with blockchain you know
foundation and kind of like hackathon
that's going to be happening in about a
month so I'm a thirteenth and fourteenth
this that sort of general dates and I
think some of the people who were there
really got I think you know in Brazil
there's a knowledge that some of the
governmental systems are not working
particularly well at this moment and a
lot of enter energy this may point put a
little mildly maybe but 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I was gonna
say you're doing some understatement
those are like really your
you're getting really good politics man
this is it was top-notch 




**Joel Dietz:**
yeah um well I
guess I'm gonna need to do a lot of that
as I as I travel weather but yeah that
the sort of transparent systems are
potentially and much much better way of
managing some of these processes and a
lot of young energy that can it came
together people who are like yeah we're
ready to kind of rise to the challenge
of building something too that's better
and actually deploying it in Brazil
right now so I actually Aryan was first
launched and the white paper came out of
a talk made the announcement was at the
North American Bitcoin thing in Miami
and I really felt that like this in
Brazil was kind of a catalyzing moment
in a similar way that that one was where
all these people were coming together
with a really positive vision but also
extremely capable and knowledgeable in
their various sort of subdomain so great
um so I'm very I'm very committed you
know to kind of taking these things to
the next level and and really you know
facilitating this this process so 



**Carlo Vicari:**
sounds
cool yeah and 




**Joel Dietz:**
when we agenting people
all other people involved with that are
really really top-notch and great and
you know we're actively open to other
kind of sponsors to for these events who
are sort of committed to the idea of
changing the world with watching so
that's 




**Carlo Vicari:**
cool um so I don't know if
there's uh we're now into a little bit
past an hour I don't know if there's
anything else you wanted to talk about
joelle or anything you want to ask
christian




**Christian Seberino:**
 no I think oh the
conversations been pretty thorough I've
asked all the questions and address the
concerns i had and i think i have a lot
better idea of what you're doing so
thank you




**Joel Dietz:**
 um yeah thank you guys then
yeah go ahead us welcome people that you
know pertain any of these initiatives
you know even if it's just a you know
creating a github issue or
whatever else are you know but I you
know like I said we're really committed
to building the sort of trans parent you
know systems and and going into places
where there's a huge need for it so





**Carlo Vicari:**
 okay
very cool and so for anybody out there
listening we're gonna post some links
below we're gonna have the white paper
that we were talking about as well as
maybe a link to agenda canned some other
stuff as many relevant links as we can
get we're going to put them in the
description below for anyone listening
on YouTube and thank you all for coming
on with us and Christian anybody
listening thank you guys for listening
and good to be back after my Japan
Shanghai malta trip and i'll see you
guys next week thank you for I ohk for
helping us make the show possible and
ATC community and all the TC dozen
everyone out there listening appreciate
you guys take care hey bye bye but



**Christian Seberino:**
if you are passionate about anything
related to a theory of classic and you
have something to say we love to discuss
that with you on the show we're always
looking for interesting guests so don't
afraid to us
you
