# Let's Talk ETC: Chucksrq - ICOs, Marketing & More.
Christian Seberino:
hi everybody welcome to another edition
of let's talk etc' Carlo can't be with
us today so I'll be doing the show I
have Chuck SRQ with me today I've
enjoyed his comments witty comments on
the et Cie slack channel and he has a
lot of skills a lot of he's making a lot
of contributions to the et Cie project
and so we're going to find out a little
bit more about him today and he's also
knowledgeable about initial coin
offerings or Aiko's which are all the
rage these days so I look forward to
hearing what he has to say about that so
Chuck welcome to the show



Chuck:
hello how are you doing 



Christian Seberino:
I'm doing good
so what I like to do at the beginning of
the show me and Carlo is we like to find
out about all the interesting people
working on et Cie in some capacity so I
I I know you've said you're an et si dev
volunteer and you do some marketing um
why don't you just start by saying how
you got interested in this technology
kind of give a little background I'm


Chuck:
sure I am last summer actually I was
just wanting to play poker online and
one of the ways you can deposit on
Bovada which was formerly Bodog poker is
you can you can use Bitcoin and so that
made me remember that I actually bought
some Bitcoin back in 2013 to UM to go in
a prediction market and unfortunately I
I had my old address and key and I
looked it up and there was nothing there
I was pretty sure that I deposited on
the site but the site went away or I
lost it and one of the predictions I
don't recall but it got me really
interested in Bitcoin again I totally
forgot about the poker I started reading
up more and more
about it and then I saw and then I got
into etherium and this was before the
Dow hard pork against and so I bought
some aetherium and I was really
interested in it I was really following
it and I just went you know full-fledged
all my spare time into learning more
about it and learning more about it okay
and um then we had the as you know the
Dow hack uh where people invested all
this money into the Dow and a lot up you
know I was really you know I almost had
this fear of missing out right with with
the Dow tokens everyone was buying Dow
tokens it seems like a really cool
venture what I really didn't like the
most was that so many people were buying
it kind of ignorant of what it could do
and also that once you put your money
into it it was really hard really time
consuming to get your money out 



Christian Seberino:
okay so
did I why are you saying that you sorry
did you it so you did buy doubt token



Chuck:
 no
I didn't I didn't I I because I
researched it a little bit I went on
with our website and it even
specifically said that there could be
the possibility of a catastrophic fog
that loses all the money right that was
one of the warnings that they had on
their own site okay so I was like you
know what I don't want to put my you
know aetherium into some entity that
could lose all my money due to a bug
sure you know and it seemed it seemed
just really risky and so many people
were putting their money in without
researching that it seemed like it
seemed like a bubble at the time right



Christian Seberino:
yeah you know I can support what you're
saying I could just meant are you
reminding me now
so I remember there was a couple days on
the etherium reddit subreddit that it
was like almost every single article was
about the Dow 






Chuck:
oh yeah well I mean it was
the only
I go at the time really right I mean
this was the first one and and so this
was the first real use case for
aetherium outside of these betting sites
it's a theory and betting sites right
like a thorough yep and rule ass right I
mean these were the only real aetherium
apps at the time that were that were of
any use to normal people and so this
investment opportunity presented open it
sounds really cool right a venture
capital firm with nobody at the top that
everyone's part owners I mean it sounds
really cool but you know you have to
read you have to read the you know the
small writing right fibrous yeah the
fine print thank you I was looking for
the words and lo and behold what what
was it like maybe two weeks later not
even 





Christian Seberino:
yeah I wasn't that long



Chuck:
I wasn't it wasn't it wasn't in that
long I was like two weeks three weeks
you know you wake up that the Dow's been
drained you know a third of the money's
gone this hacker has it all the
exchanges have frozen aetherium trading
yep you know because Vitalik asks for it
they're actually talking about a hard
for uh you know just to just a disaster
right just a disaster and um just the
talk of the hard work uh upset me uh you
know that they were even considering it
and and I sold a day two days later okay
you know and and and for the most part
they thought that they only had to do a
soft work but I was so upset about the
thought of doing a hard work - yeah get
back the funds that I sold and I was
honestly looking into getting into
either moon arrow or expanse okay you
know with what with with the money that
I sold from aetherium you know that I
had kind of put aside okay this is gonna
be not bitcoins it's gonna be something
else
mm-hmm you know I liked aetherium
because of the ability for it to do
smart contracts but they lost me with
this talk of art for
that they even wanna that the community
is even talking about it so you know I
really looked into putting it into
expanse and their team just I don't know
their team just didn't impress me and I
was probably gonna put it into more
narrow just go full-fledged into Monera
okay you know because I really like
their community which i think is kind of
similar in ethos to the theorem classics
and I really like you know fluffy pony
their lead developer and you know the
road map is interesting too I like that
they have privacy I like that you know
they can they can scale I really think
they have something going for them



Christian Seberino:
 now
I'm curious when you say that we have
the same ethos as Manero I presume
you're talking about the values of the
of the community so it's you don't just
look at the technology you also kind of
look at the principles is that my
understanding correctly correct




Chuck:
yeah and and right now the only three
points that I'm invested in our Bitcoin
aetherium classic animal Niro and if
you'll notice there's a couple there's a
lot of similarities between the three
right there's no pre mine with all three
of them there's no ICO that started all
three of them there's no there no
Treasury system right whereby the miner
where some of the rewards from the
blockchain go to the development team
automatically you know and you know and
I know some people are in favor of that
but I'm personally not and and that will
be something that will be divided for
TTC in the future and 



Christian Seberino:
so I've from the
way that you're talking it's clear that
you are an astute rate about the
investing component some people are are
just interested in this technology but
you're thinking that you were thinking
of multiple cryptocurrencies to invest
in so you obviously
I had some sense in in the financial
area so that was that's pretty
impressive now um what you so you talked
to me about your what you did before you
discovered Bitcoin where were you a
programmer or what 





Chuck:
no I don't know any I
don't know any programming or developing
skill I don't have any programming or
developing skills at all really uh so my
background is in economics and political
science and and sales and marketing 



Christian Seberino:
okay
and so what is arts go ahead 



Chuck:
and um and
before I used to be involved with
prediction markets oh I used to do I
used to do trading back on n trade comm
if anyone knows about that I also used
to I used to trade on predicted or
uh-huh and I really like predicted org
and it's still around but one of the
things I don't like is their fees are
really high okay you know anytime you
win any predictions on predict or gets
you know they take ten percent and
that's a that's a big bummer



Christian Seberino:
yeah no no no uh is it just in like meat
when they've been people say prediction
markets is that just a euphemism for a
gambling site basically people bet on on
whatever and then some people use that
the betting the odds that people give as
it's almost like a poll polling data is
that correct 



Chuck:
yes yes and no uh in the
sense it is kind of very similar to
gambling right but at the same time I
could say that about options trading
yeah you know in derivatives trading you
know it's a lot of that is is this is
you know intelligent gambling okay um
what I would say is the difference
between a prediction market and a
regular gambling site is with the
prediction market you're betting against
other users okay you're trading against
other users you can you can buy into
position and then you can sell that
position later okay whereas with gamble
you're you're making a bet against the
house and that bet is going to stand
until the event is over okay and you're
going to win or lose based on the event
right yeah
with trading up prediction right I can
buy into
for example Hillary Clinton winning
uh-huh maybe her odds go from thirty to
fifty percent and maybe then I think you
know what I think it was undervalued at
first but now I think it's overvalued
I'm going to sell at fifty percent okay
and you can win on Hillary Clinton's
value going up even though she might end
up losing like she did 





Christian Seberino:
okay so I
sophisticated you're saying that there's
sophisticated ways to make money so it
just like options could be sophisticated
it okay it's not all right 




Chuck:
correct yeah
exactly you know well a lot of my wins
were on positions that didn't end up
happening but you know they were either
overvalued and I you know I traded it
when it was undervalued to win up that
overvalue uh
and or you know I bought when the stakes
were really really small and they came
out you know to a win for me okay you
know and so that's my that's my
background okay and now I'm into
cryptocurrencies I got in I got heavily
involved in the debate on our aetherium
on the reddest on the reddit site
against the hard work I didn't want to
see it happen I would have invested if
they didn't decide to do it I actually
did some polling on our ethereum twice
to kind of read how the community felt
about it okay I you know my the polling
that I did on our theorem was a lot
closer than what the carbon vote ended
up being 




Christian Seberino:
oh yeah so you're okay so there
was more support for for not of not
doing the hard fork tutor s to rescue
the DAO funds you're saying 





Chuck:
yeah I think
personally I think the carbon vote was
kind of an excuse uh uh you know too too
hard for kit you know when
when when that boat was so heavily in
favor of working oh




Christian Seberino:
 yeah that's
interesting I had never heard any other
information about polling data before
the heart Fork
so you're saying that you you were
involved with that the carbon boat was
the only thing that I knew of so if
you're saying that there's dad let




Chuck:
 me
look it up right now




Christian Seberino:
 okay what we could
also post it in the boat in the
underneath it on YouTube when we post
the video but yeah well the I'll make a
note to do that



Chuck:
 oh here we go I found it
already a very public survey on a theory
of July 16th to the 17th okay okay we
have here it was a quick 16 question
survey uh-oh
there were over let's see here
well this one okay we'll go to the first
one since there were a lot more votes
for that one okay this one was done this
was the first survey that we did okay
this is on June 23rd 24th okay most out
of the polling there were like around 14
questions
most people were 29 to 35 years old
between 23 and 50 so so it's a it's it's
not so much a millennial crowd right a
little bit a little bit older than you
would think what Syrian and that makes
sense right because people in high
school and college don't have any money
right that's right uh out of the poll 93
percent are male it kind of makes sense
right
yeah but out of a thousand out of the
thousand vote
forty three or female so I mean that I
was kind of surprised it was that high
to be honest it's 43 being on up here
iam 





Christian Seberino:
now it's unfortunate because I might
I think to do a scientifically accurate
poll it's it's
much more complicated than 





Chuck:
oh yeah
absolutely but I mean how are you gonna
do a phone survey of etherium users




Christian Seberino:
 yes
yes I think I think ultimately we'll
never know
probably the true you know percentages
we can just kind of guess from data like
what you're presenting which is okay





Chuck:
absolutely I would agree but here's well
here's the important finding out of the
poll right uh would you support a hard
work that would treat a third from the
dark Dow to return to the Dow yes I
would support at 54% support okay no I
would not support had twenty eight point
two six percent support not sure fifteen
percent so that's a lot lot less than
eighty five percent that's right carbon
vote or the 90% that a lot of etherium
users like to claim right they had at
the time right
that's fan um so I was against it as
soon as the theorem classic started
trading on Polonia
I bought some I got involved I decided
to since there wasn't a Twitter account
for etherion classic or there was one
actually I but I didn't like how was
being done it wasn't being done enough
uh-huh there weren't enough tweets I
decided to just make one okay you know
and because bit Novus T was like if you
want to do it just do it
I'm not going there's nobody here to
tell you you can't do it right yeah
and and there's no one to make it
official but so you just you just do it
or you don't want to do it so I did it
okay and that's you know and that's how
it's hidden classic was in the first
month if you wanted to be a part of it
you do see came up yeah you did it
there wasn't there no no tell you you
couldn't do it 




Christian Seberino:
yep now why don't you
also say a little bit about what you do
for et Cie dev I know you're a volunteer
with with them





Chuck:
 what would I do mostly is
I help them in terms of marketing okay
if you know I run I run the Twitter
account for et Cie and it isn't just for
the e TC dev team even though I aligned
with them more than IOH K but
you know and I try to promote IOH K for
their for their development of the
theory on classic as well okay and I
just try to promote it in classic all
the time for everyone for third party
projects as well
Stanberry Beckett ticket okay of it




Christian Seberino:
 now
now yeah i sorry give me to cut you off
good
no I so I don't know anything about no
little bit but not a lot about marketing
so you obviously use Twitter um just
enlighten us what are some other ways or
maybe maybe you think that maybe that's
sufficient or is our other KitKat give
me the kind of the big thing




Chuck:
 you know
anytime I do post something really
important I do post it on reddit as well
I do make sure it's seen on our slack
channel DTC slack channel as well as the
et Cie telegram channel okay but four
major announcements for most most of the
stuff I do it's it's on Twitter okay
I'm also making YouTube videos once
every couple of weeks you know once a
week twice you know once every two weeks
okay with ties it on ties and
cryptocurrency channel okay I think
you've talked to him once or twice yeah
and yeah so fortunately the Twitter has
38 thousand followers these days okay
it's also how I keep up to date on the
cryptocurrency community and and find
the latest breaking news that involves
UTC as well and bring it back to the
community
okay you know because sometimes we have
things happen that everyone needs to
know about and I try to be that guy for
AJC 




Christian Seberino:
well yeah we appreciate what you do
and by the way I will also make a note
to put a link to your YouTube videos if
you want me to




Chuck:
 thank you I would
appreciate that that'd be great




Christian Seberino:
 okay so
as you know that everybody's getting
excited about initial coin offerings
these Aiko's and there's lots of money
being thrown around and I know that
that's something that you've been
investigating
and you know a lot about that and I'm
sure that there's lots of people
listening that are curious what is it
what is going on with all this why is
everybody talking about this all of a
sudden people that are just joining so
right so for if my understanding is that
an ICO is a way to raise funds by
creating basically a new cryptocurrency
and so and it aetherium and aetherium
classic by their very nature are are
just perfect for that use case you could
easily make a token without having to
make your own blockchain and get miners
so would you would you agree with that
is that is that an act 


Chuck:
correct yes 


Christian Seberino:
okay
and so of what what are your thoughts on
like what why all this excitement why is
all this money entering the ico space
now what are your thoughts on that 



Chuck:
well
I think it gives investors and boosts
some more intelligent than others the
sense that there are part of the project
that they have a stake in the project
that they have some equity possibly
revenue sharing when it's not revenue
sharing uh-huh you know so I do think
that there is to a certain extent a lot
of dumb money out there with AI goes
right there people putting all this
money into uh you know the good you know
the canosa psycho the bat ICO uh when
when a lot of these tokens don't don't
give you nothing in return right or you
can use them but you can't use them that
much it's kind of just like okay thanks
for donating to a project here's a token
in exchange right and they're not making
it super obvious you know that that's
you know some of these icons aren't
making it super obvious that's the case
for the investor well quote an investor



Christian Seberino:
yeah yeah so that was one thing that I
was surprised me I thought was
interesting so when you buy a share like
in a company let's say with in an
initial public offering an IPO
there's there's regulations you're
actually literally owning a piece of
that company right have certain rights
with that but with an ICO like you said
you're basically making a donation and
you're you're essentially trusting them
to whatever promises they made that
attracted you to that token you're
you're just trusting them to keep their
promises right 




Chuck:
correct and so yeah
exactly




Christian Seberino:
and so on the one hand you could say
well there's not as much regulation as
there is for traditional securities and
so you have more flexibility to do
innovative things perhaps but right but
that's so that's a good thing but it's
also a bad thing because you don't you
don't have the protections you have the
flexibility yes but you don't have the
protection so you got to consider 





Chuck:
it's
kind of unfortunate that there is some
regulation the regarding securities and
that they can be applied to these IKOS
because I think it would be a lot better
if these IKOS did offer a token where
they would share the revenues right but
that makes it automatically qualify as a
security and the exchanges won't list it
and then you're talking about the SEC
getting involved and who knows what
happens 






Christian Seberino:
right okay so what you're saying
see I didn't know that you're saying
that there some some IKOS are careful
not to do anything that that resembles a
security to to avoid legal issues is it
direct okay yeah and then you're saying
that the exchanges the crypto currency
exchanges also don't want to carry
because they also want to avoid the the
issues associated with that correct
correct 




Chuck:
yeah exactly then and and
because Fitbit tracks has made it clear
to people who want to list their tokens
on their their site that they won't do
it if there's what they call dub when
they get when they get the when they get
revenue 



Christian Seberino:
okay oh I
Givaudan evidence 





Chuck:
evidence thank yes if
the token is
it's not getting invested on bit Rick's
right okay and that's smart on bit Rex's
first right they don't want to get
involved you know they really want to
avoid government regulation when
possible and government fine impossible
dates at scale time for taking part hmm
but there are some coke and still even
if you don't have a dividend that
doesn't mean it's not a security right
there's there's the Howey test you got
to make sure it doesn't pass the Howey
test 




Christian Seberino:
can you alike so so like I said at
the beginning of the show it was clear
that yours you're astute in the in the
financial space and so I don't know that
the Howey test is can you enlighten





Chuck:
ensures the Howey test is how basically
if it's kind of like a rule of thumb of
how the FCC decides if something is a
security or not okay right and there's
there's a couple guidelines for for you
know if you want to know if it's a
security or not and okay let me see if I
can find out I know I saw it somewhere
no real close okay here we go what is a
Howey test number one is it an
investment of money okay okay and it has
to satisfy all three requirements so
just because it satisfies one or two
doesn't mean it's necessarily a security
it is it an investment of money right
hmm let's take like the bat token for
example write the brief this is the
called the basic attention token it's
for the brave browser it's a token where
you can pay so you can't see
advertisements all right with the brave
browsers is my understanding right is an
investment of money people are kind of
expecting it to go up so I would say yes
it is an investment okay um there is an
expectation of profits from the
investment day right they kind of expect
to make a little money off of it right
yeah
the investment of money is in a common
enterprise yeah you know a lot of people
can pull you know it's a pool of money
from a cross-section of people
okay and let's see here that any profit
comes from the efforts of a promoter or
third-party right so if they profit from
the bat token it comes from the work of
the brave browser and cable behind the
brave browser right so it kind of seems
to satisfy those for you know kind of
conditions so okay yeah they're they're
kind of straddling whether or not
they're a security and they would
certainly say that they're not yeah I've
done yeah a lot more homework than I
have 




Christian Seberino:
so so there may be there's a
there's some gray area or something
because I've read also I've read papers
on Aiko's where they they were the I
read there was one paper at Harvard
Business Review on Aiko's where they it
wasn't they said that it the way that
they defined securities today that these
cryptocurrencies these icons don't fall
under that umbrella and so I thought
that that meant that in the future
they would they would import they would
change the definition of what a security
is I don't know if you'd call that an
improvement or not but maybe that that's
what they would do and then it would
fall under the jurisdiction doesn't you
think 



Chuck:
well I I would hope that they
don't if they don't fall under
securities regulations at the moment
like I would kind of hope that they
don't okay right you know I think it's
best if they you know that the
government won't get involved in this
space and hamper technological
advancement I think the free market you
know if you make a bad investment it's a
bad investment get over it and but so
we're going to find out right you know
soon and office if it's a bad investment
you know if some of these are bad
investment or not




Christian Seberino:
 yeah yeah and I don't
know if if eventually if enough people
lose money and there's enough scams that
the public will call for there'll be so
much demand for regulation that they'll
force the SEC will be forced to come in
and you know regulate it other I don't
know said I don't happen to know what





Chuck:
 I
guess well I guess we're gonna find out
right it's yes it's but the
but one thing's for sure it's impressive
how much money some of these Aiko's are
raising yes you know that the bat ICO
got 35 million in less than a million I
mean in less than a minute
Wow which is impressive by any standards
right yes you know so much so that
people were complaining that they
couldn't get involved okay no because
one person got 25% of the tokens okay
you know and and 98% of all the tokens
were taken by a hundred people okay so
it wasn't very distributed yeah it
didn't really fall under the kind of
democratic notion behind these Aiko's
that it's you know that it's going to be
very distributed that the ownership of
these entities is you know with the
crowd with the people the fans behind
the products and even though you can and
and you know the price the price of the
token already you know on on the
exchange on the one exchange that lists
the back token it's already up almost
ten times 




Christian Seberino:
okay see ya now see the one
one would you agree with this so a few
minutes ago you were saying that a lot
of these people don't make money and
Aiko's and/or they don't get as much
from it as they think they are they they
lose money and but when you have things
like this bat ICO that does so amazing
then everybody just remembers that right
and then on reddit you see these amazing
ICO stories and then people focus on
those and I wonder if they'll get the
wrong impression they think that they're
all just going to grow you know and
times really fast






Chuck:
 well I think I think
they have the impression that all the
big ones are probably gonna be really
really successful right that but you
know and I mean they haven't been proven
wrong so far with some of the bigger
ones right other than the DAO Yeah right
all you know as soon as it hit the
market the Ginoza
touken went and doubled tripled even the
the bat token more than doubled tripled
its value when I hit the market yeah and
you can find it on lick we lick we
exchange for example 





Christian Seberino:
now now to be to be
fair to the Dow so it was improperly
implemented technology but as far as a
fundraising success story it certainly
was successful 




Chuck:
absolutely it raised 150
million at the time and imperium was
only you know fifteen to twenty dollars
at the time yeah you know whereas
aetherium is 225 each at right at the
moment yeah you know so at this so it's
a lot more theory I'm pulling into the
doubt and quote into yeah







Christian Seberino:
 yeah so um
what is your role right now are you are
you investing in Aiko's are you gonna
create some Aiko's or help create Aiko's
kind of what's your I have an idea for
and 




Chuck:
I kill myself I don't know if I want
to pursue it or not I'll keep it private
at the moment okay I just want to I do
just want to warn people that a lot of
these cases behind the Aiko's are don't
seem to make a lot of sense right and
and I've seen a lot basically they're
just donation drives really behind the
project and and because I've read a
couple of these Aiko's and white papers
and I'm like okay sounds like a cool
project but what do you need a token for
what do you need your own cryptocurrency
for really you know one on top of the
theory on more on top of the theory and
classic for you know that makes sense I
mean if you want to just say it's a
sentimental token say it okay you know
be honest about it don't don't say hey
it's actually really useful it's gonna
be money for this when most likely it's
not if you can use you know if you were
ever you know in the white paper if you
can substitute the token with eTCO
Bitcoin uh-huh and it still works the
same then
the point right because 






Christian Seberino:
yeah I see what
you're saying so yeah there's already
good crypto currencies that are right
and so why do you need to make all these
new ones




Chuck:
exactly it's kind of like the episode of
it's sunny in philadelphia when when
they make their own Paddy's dollars
right that the name of the bar is called
Paddy's yen and the bar owners right uh
who and if you ever watch the show it's
it's for idiots that just you know
they're today just tries to all these
get-rich-quick schemes right they make
their own called Paddy's dollars okay
and to try and make people come to the
bar they just give away all these
Paddy's dollars and people spend them
and then they don't spend their own
money and they just end up you know
giving away beer for free basically okay
yeah right and so and and so they're
like how does it work right you know
because they were kind of copied the
Dave & Buster's model okay of where they
create their own little rewards program
right I mean okay if you make a token
and it's kind of like a rewards program
that I could see that kind of working
okay you know but if you're just saying
yeah now you own a little bit of brave
but you don't really own brave at all
okay you know or organ osis or auger you
know some of these some of these tokens
are actually useful some of them aren't
some of them actually give you a
dividend some of them don't




Christian Seberino:
yeah well I would imagine if you created
your own propel currency you could maybe
do some things cheaper or innovative
that maybe would be more difficult with
like four it's like with Bitcoin that
the fees are higher right




Chuck:
 right that's
what I mean that's correct that's that's
true to a certain extent but why can you
use etc' instead yeah yeah the fees are
nice EC are super cheap yeah and they're
no one's going to complain about sending
a TC when and any TC has established
market value yes
right that's only been going up for the
last couple months 





Christian Seberino:
so now I wasn't when
I I this was another interesting thing
about Aiko's that I discovered so I
assumed that they somehow by
these new tokens you know Vee has some
smart contract or something but my
understanding is what the way these work
in general description a a general way
is you announce on Bitcoin talk forum
Bitcoin Bitcoin talk org then you market
your your ico and people don't literally
buy the coin directly what they do is
they donate to Bitcoin or ether like you
were saying to an escrow service and
then eventually that that will all those
funds and donations will get sorted out
and you'll be given a new token by some
you know other means but it starts with
Bitcoin or ether typically so that was
kind of surprising it goes to your
question about why not just if you're
already if you can use Bitcoin and ether
and you already are why need the the new
coin yeah yeah so probably what happened
was some people used a new coin and it
was effective but then then it just
became like the thing to do and be
people do it today they don't even
really realize or know why they're doing
a new con 




Chuck:
what the I feel that I do like
is you know if it's the one that's a
smart contract that and and the cool
thing is on classic ether wallet comm
you can actually create your own ico and
you can create your own crowd sale in
less than five minutes and it's it's
basically the contract that's been on a
theorem that'll work for over a year
Masek we just made it in a clickable
format on a website for people okay to
make their own token and I even created
a token a couple days ago called whoa I
just to play around just a messenger I
made ten tokens as a supply as head
tokens okay and um but anyone can create
their own tokens now and and you
basically you send money to the smart
contract you established a price for how
much tokens you're giving away for et
Cie and it gives you the tokens
automatically back at the address that
sent it from and so that's that's kind
of a cool like oh yeah the one where you
have the escrow service and you're
dividing it all up from bitcoins and you
know why make it so complicated just you
use a smart contract that's what it's
there for you know sign some UTC get
back some tokens cool






Christian Seberino:
 oh I just thought
of yeah I do remember now one reason why
you might want your own cryptocurrency
let's say that let's say me and you had
a successful blockchain startup and if
we only accepted etc' or ether ETH then
the price of our the the market cap
would be would would depend on the price
of e.t.c or ETH but if we had our own
token and and we were doing awesome
people valued our startup then our
tokens might conceivably increase you
know much faster than EPC or ETH seems




Chuck:
that's true that's a good point you know
if you know if let's say you start at 10
cents and it goes to $2 uh-huh right
that's a lot bigger increase than etc'
going from you know because it's already
at 16 dollars from 16 to 20 yeah it's a
lot bigger percentage increase you know
so you can kind of start from the bottom
all over again which is kind of what
people want right they want they want
the cheap token that has value in the
future instead of buying high that's
right that's fine 




Christian Seberino:
yeah so I think that's
clearly one reason why people need their
own cryptocurrency is so that you can
you can affect the market can value the
company or the startup whatever it is an
initiative accurately





Chuck:
 if it was like a
share of the company then I would agree
but the way there's some of these tokens
work I really don't see any there
shouldn't be any correlation between
what the token is worth and with what
the company valuation should be






Christian Seberino:
 sure
right yeah so I think I think what
you're saying one of the things you said
since its beholdin on the entity the
startup to make the coke and actually do
something useful right like right maybe
you have to buy you can only buy their
service with the token and that and



Chuck:
exactly




Christian Seberino:
 and I can do that that's then it
has its some some value some true value
whereas you're saying that some ICO's
you if you just buy it's just like




Chuck:
 what
like for example what the canosa's token
uh-huh it gives you the canosa token
gives you these dividend of what they're
called wiz token okay so it's kind of
weird that it's a token that gives you
other tokens right instead of the that's
right
ETH right yeah and then um on the
website you can pay the fees to use
their prediction market service with the
with the Wiz right with the Wiz tokens
but you don't have to use the Wiz tokens
you can use Bitcoin or you can use the
theorem right so okay so why do I need
the canosa tokens why do I need the Wiz
right yeah I can use Bitcoin I can use
aetherium yeah put on their platform
completely without ever touching their
token so what you know so it makes no
sense for people to say wow the gnosis
sold 5% of their tokens they made 10
million dollars or companies worth 300
million dollars no sorry
that's crazy oh you know if you look at
the state of prediction market today you
know and how popular they are canosa's
is not anywhere near a 300 million
dollar valuation sorry
not even close okay first you got to get
some users okay even the US dollar
prediction market number one and in you
know in the world is is is probably what
is less than ten million okay total
valuation I know so so for these people
to say there were 300 million when
nobody's using it compared to predicted
that org is nuts it's crazy so there
might be a big bubble popping soon in
terms of some of these Aiko's 




Christian Seberino:
yeah now
to to resources that I'm aware of that
people could use to research Aiko's to
do their due diligence is ico rating um
and then Smith + crown Smith and Crown I
don't know if why they they like that
they put a plus in their main reason
instead of an ampersand but those are
two resources people could use do you
have any other advice any other thoughts
on how to protect yourself from scams
and bad ICO







Chuck:
 just just just do your own
research you know we read their own
white papers okay if the white paper
doesn't make any sense to you don't
invest in it alright yeah you know
sometimes I think these some of these
entities make the white paper sound
really really complicated uh-huh that
way they make you feel dumb okay and
they make you feel like you can't give
it a valuation and so you invest out of
you know fear of missing out out of Como
and not actually giving it a fundamental
value okay right and I've seen a couple
projects where I read the white paper
maybe I'm not smart enough yeah I'll
admit it to myself you know maybe I'm
not smart enough to understand what I'm
reading but you know sometimes I mean
the white paper and I'm going you know I
can't even figure out what this thing's
about you know why am I gonna invest
them




Christian Seberino:
 yeah so so they might not their
motivation my intention might not be to
explain it as clearly as possible there
might have other 




Chuck:
on purpose to confuse
people and it make you want to invest
when you shouldn't sure when if you knew
what exactly it is you're investing and
you would invest it and but they make
you feel dumb and they make you feel
like you know man these people are super
smart I got to put my money behind these
guys yes this is and and it's all kind
of stems from the fact that aetherium
started with an ICO right and now
aetherium is a really hot investment if
you invested in the theory of Michael
you you would have done amazing by now
yeah so all these people that are
getting into a theory I'm late in the
game are like man I miss the etherium I
go I don't want to miss the next hot one
uh-huh I want to get involved with some
of these you know yeah and and I'll give
you an example I
this Bitcoin meetup where I go to here
in Tampa Bay okay
and and at one of the last meetings you
know that all the guys talked about yeah
let's let's get involved in investing in
these Aiko's I'm willing to throw some
darts
you know basically it's you know to some
of these guys they're just they're just
throwing darts they expect some of these
to lose yeah you know they just want to
see they just want to get one where they
hit ten times on their money uh you know
or twenty times on their money yeah and
that's all they need to make a profit on
investing on five or ten oh




Christian Seberino:
 yeah I I
remember so I'm old enough to remember
the late 90s when the the web was taking
off and there was the same kind of hype
cycle about the web and web companies
back then that people have now a
blockchain companies and then I saw that
crash and then and and I was I was in I
didn't have I was in college I was
finishing my PhD at the time so I didn't
get involved with that and then after
that the next hype cycle was the real
estate market you may have seen the
movie short and so and I it I was a
victim of that one all right so my sense
is that young people they have to get
they have to lose money and then they
learn that okay we have to be really
careful you know the bad things could
happen and then maybe as you I that's
that's how it for me I don't and so as I
got older then I kind of a more cautious
about 




Chuck:
right and and and while here's the
other thing people can admit to
themselves okay we are in a bubble but
they think they're smart enough to be
able to get out before the bubble pops




Christian Seberino:
yes
yeah there's no yeah this gets into all
kinds of psychology and 





Chuck:
yeah they're
they're probably some people that like
yeah I know it's a bubble I know crypto
is about worry now I know Aiko is a dyke
those are a bubble right now but I'm
gonna I'm gonna make sure I get my money
out first
I have liquidate really quickly that
they can or can't yet you know and and
and they're setting themselves up for
failure when they don't know they are
yes yep and that's the unfortunate thing
because once once the bubble pops if it
does pop if we are in a bubble and I
don't know if we are or not to be honest
with you and that's and that's the hard
part you know I have a degree in
economics and I can't tell if we're in a
bubble or not my inclination is that we
are uh-huh but I see even more Aiko's
down the line I see cryptocurrencies
with just such a shallow penetration of
the entire market and community outside
of it I mean like how many people in
real life even know about
cryptocurrencies ya know about IKOS
that's right you know our penetration is
so shallow yeah so for people to say
we're in a bubble I'm like okay but if
twice as many people outside of the
crypto community hears about crypto
currencies we're gonna be fine there's
going to be so much with new money
flowing in uh-huh this is gonna be a
drop in the bucket you know





Christian Seberino:
 yeah that's
right another dose that I thought of
would you agree with this is so to be an
investor you have to not just follow the
crowd you have to think for yourself
sometimes or often it even is beneficial
to be contrarian right Grenn so I like I
really appreciated Barry Silbert when he
made an early investment in et Cie and
you know of course now he's done well
the price has gone up but I don't know
how difficult it was he sounded so
confident that you know this was going
to obviously grow in value but I imagine
if you have all your colleagues saying
you know you're making a big mistake or
what are you thinking it it could be
difficult for some people to go against
the grain go against the crowd





Chuck:
absolutely I mean very silver deserves a
lot of credit deserves a lot of credit
for what he did and and certainly some
of the price increase has to do with his
investment yes no but at the same time
you know I'm sure the theory of classic
would have done okay without the
investment trust you know maybe not $16
right now but maybe $10
No yeah and because there's there's
other investors out there and I mean he
absolutely deserves a lot of credit for
sticking in there for putting the
investment that he did putting in making
the investment trust you know and now
with Tyrion classic has you know an
investment trust available to Wall
Street investors regular Bay brokers
that they can get involved with BTC
where it whereas a lot of them can't
with aetherium yeah you know and so yes
it definitely pays off to be a
contrarian sometimes or sometimes yeah
you got to go with the crowd to make
money right and yeah but sometimes it
pays off to be it pays off to be
skeptical of everyone and everything




Christian Seberino:
yeah you always have to do your due
diligence you right exactly yeah so yes
so we've talked about your marketing
work for etc' we've learned about your
background and how you got interested in
et Cie you've given us your thoughts on
Aiko's did did I miss anything is there
anything else that




Chuck:
 one thing I do want
to mention real quick is the etc' dev
team is going to release the Emerald
wallet really soon okay
it's currently in like the design stages
the last final stages before we let it
out it's kind of gonna be a rough beta
okay but it does sound like it's on
schedule I've seen a couple pictures of
it so far it looks good a little rough
but it's it's getting there okay and it
should be exciting it's going to be a
new desktop wall at 4:30 in classic
where you can run your own node that way
so for people that aren't technically
inclined to run guests and parody like
me for example I I'm not very



Christian Seberino:
 um I'm a
parody band myself



Chuck:
 III I can't figure
out how to run parody to be honest you
know I've tried it doesn't it's not all
that user friendly to me okay um maybe
you can teach me one day yeah
Oprah mom but you know I was I
use mist when I cut up and unfortunately
mist isn't working too well with the
theorem classic these days okay but
emerald wallet is going to be its
replacement it's going to show off that
the theorem classic developers know what
they're doing or capable of doing
anything the etherium developers are
capable of and I think it's gonna really
impress a lot of people so




Christian Seberino:
 very nice



Chuck:
 you
know I worried about that look that yes
well these yeah as you come out of the
next week or two okay is my
understanding definitely by the end of
June okay you know yep





Christian Seberino:
okay well thank you very much Chuck for
sharing the this time with us and giving
us your thoughts and I we all appreciate
everything you do and keep doing what
you do we definitely need marketing help
that's not something bad I know much
about so 



Chuck:
yeah you're doing a good job
with these videos so wanna say you're
doing too bad 



Christian Seberino:
all right well thank thank
you for that show support all right so
have a good have a good rest of this
Friday to 



Chuck:
youtob but my man you have a
good weekend okay hey bye bye bye
[Music]


Christian Seberino:
if you are passionate about anything
related to etherium classic and you have
something to say we'd love to discuss
that with you on the show we're always
looking for interesting guests so don't
be afraid to mess
you
