# Let's Talk ETC: Alan Verbner - Scala Client.
**Carlo Vicari:**
hi everybody and thanks for tuning in -
lets talk etc' I'm your host karlovy
along with my co-host dr. Christian said
burrito this week he got a really
special guest with us tonight
Alan burger from Team the groats indeed
team who was working on the Scylla
client for etc' they're completing a lot
of stuff in that respect and you know
they're getting a lot of work done also
I just want to thank everybody for
another awesome great couple of weeks I
missed last week's show but we had Chuck
SRQ from etc' dev team on and that was a
great interview that Christian did solo
so Christian thanks for for bringing him
on here et Cie dev team is making a lot
of progress in a number of different
things I will post some of that progress
below a link to e TC dev and some of
their updates that they put on the
website weekly also just want to point
out that anyone that had has any
questions about the grill deke team this
is allen verb nur who's also on the team
allen McSherry is the team lead we've
had him on the show before we're just
gonna try to keep bringing on people
from the ground deke team to introduce
into the community so that everybody in
the community is familiar with some of
the great people in the space that are
working on this I say so without keep
doing this keeping this going too long I
just want to introduce everybody to
Allen bourbon or Allen thanks for coming
on and we really appreciate everything
you're doing for the community


**Alan Verbner:**
 no thank
you thank you guys for you might didn't
mean it's a blizzard 



**Carlo Vicari:**
no absolutely I
mean we're we're happy to have you on
here for her for sure but um so uh
something Allen just to let you know I
know you said you listen to the show and
for anybody that's out there listening
now that maybe this is their first time
listening to the show what we like to do
is put someone's first time on the show
just kind of introduce them to the
community get a little bit about their
background
you know how they got into tech then
from tech have they get into blockchain
and then block chain how they kind of
got into et Cie so it's a little bit of
a rabbit hole story that we like to tell
so that everyone in the community who's
maybe listening for the first time and
finding out about et Cie and the groats
and et
and all the other people working on the
project can see and get to feel or get
to know the people that are behind the
scenes working on this you know day and
night to make everything possible um you
know not just currently in e.t.c but for
ETCs future so uh how did you get into
to Tech Allen I know we were speaking a
little bit before the show but just for
everybody listening maybe you could let
them know what your back story was and
you know kind of your background and how
you how you got into Tech in the first
place maybe 




**Alan Verbner:**
oh sure sure so first let me
tell you all that I'm from Argentina
which is a country far away from
everything it's close to Brazil in South
America so and that that's important
because you will understand how I got
into blockchains
and it will make sense for you and so
that that's why my queer accent and so I
got into i-th it's not like a fancy
story I when I was young my mom used to
work on a tee and she used to bring me
with her to to her work and I was amazed
by all these computers yeah I haven't
had one at home so I went there and play
with those machines and they were
amazing for me and I think maybe that's
the the reason I am in Nigeria when I
was young I and I got my computer I was
just playing but not playing games but
playing with the computer I used to
download different Linux distributions
and compile them just to see what
happens and I spent like all night
compiling a distribution



**Christian Seberino:**
never looked 



**Alan Verbner:**
yeah everything yeah
everything and I used like a virtual
machine it was horribly slow so I spent
like 12 hours watching the screen moving
and thinking I was a hacker and and for
me it was really easy to to move forward
in my career when I went to high school
I picked on the IT classes and I want
you to college and that it was difficult
to pick which university should I go but
besides that I knew that it was going to
be related with computers and IT and I
decided to go to engineering university
because I don't know maybe when what's
the time to decide I think I'm more
pragmatic person rather than a tourist
I'd rather to do stuff and improve
solutions and get things done that may
be the step before that so yeah yeah for
me it was like okay this this is what I
should do because I sometimes I had
friends like they were not sure about
what to study maybe law maybe whatever
and now for me it was I knew that I was
going to be a super engineer so yeah
it's really crazy and what it's it's
hard to explain is that it I love this
it's made it makes me really happy I
have three things that I can do every
day which is listening to music drinking
matter which is Argentinian drink like
tea and holding I can spend like it's
crazy but I can spend like twelve hours
sitting on the chair in front of the
computer doing stuff and my girlfriend
goes goes out and when he comes she
comes back she sees me in the exact same
position like like the time has passed
and I'm still there so it's it's crazy
so you know that that's my my IT
background and four years ago with some
college friends we decided to create
that company called ethics labs which
basically we wanted to create good
quality software from a Janina and you
know sometimes when you work as an
employee for companies you don't have I
mean you always are driven but my
clients are needs and business and stuff
but in now we have like we want to
discuss we are not like monkey coders
and that's the different that we we got
great
in this company we like to find and help
our customers but also like you know
discussing we don't accept a stuff like
okay you need to do this and that's it
so that that's 


**Christian Seberino:**
what freedom where
freedom kind of to do what you want
because you're running your own company
is that one of the things



**Alan Verbner:**
 yeah yeah yeah
you know it's freedom and you always
need to fulfill your customers
expectations and they have their
businesses and you need to help them but
yeah in some way it's it's a little bit
more freedom yes and and that's it
basically much that's my IT career let's
say and maybe I can tell you about
blockchain ease because they are here is
where Argentina comes into the scene and
first I want to tell you that I'm not
looking for donations or I'm not in a
war zone
but that Judea it's like a crazy country
and just to give you some context
because you know people without context
doesn't make sense we have a lot of
poverty in the in our country a lot of
corruption and for example 3% inflation
in a year so that's out that's a crazy
number 


**Christian Seberino:**
and you say 3 or 30?



**Alan Verbner:**
30 30 30
whoa yeah that's that's crazy and in
2001 bank system collapse and people
that have US dollars for example they
were changed to pesos in that weird rate
another example is that a couple years
ago we weren't able to buy to legally
buy USD dollars for example oh boy we
weren't allowed so I think that that
context a broad blockchain to Argentina
a Bitcoin started being like a huge
technology for for all the Argentinian
people because you are allowed to move
my value around the borders without
relying on banks so yeah and community
is quite
being here and and that's and that's
when the first time a friend told me hey
you need to take a look at this new con
it's Greg it's anonymous and
what maybe that can be discussed but
it's anonymous you can move you can
receive money you it's mathematically
proven that you can like work we did
it's safe you don't need to rely on a
bank or a central bank or whatever and I
read this blog about roof of work
consensus and stuff and I was probably
smiling at that time if it took me a
picture then I was like oh my god I
can't believe this is true 




**Christian Seberino:**
I don't know
if you're familiar with there's a book
about bitcoins history called digital
gold and in the book he talks about
Argentina and a parent you know whence
whence was a he was a famous
entrepreneur apparently that in the
early days who did a lot in Argentina
but yeah in the book they talk about how
the government tries to manipulate the
exchange rate and all the issues and how
people bypass that with with Bitcoin and
there have been there have been other
articles I've seen about people
exchanging almost like a gray market
exchanging big coin for for other types
of currency and so I I got the
impression that they were they were just
really advanced in terms of adoption
because they needed it so much and 







**Alan Verbner:**
yeah
yes yeah that that's completely true I
think you are talking about a sample
founder right that's right yeah yeah
yeah he's Argentinian hey guy yes yes
and all that context made us like to be
interested in in Baconian to be honest
I'm not in that business in trading
bitcoins or medium or whatever had once
I I bought my a Bitcoin and I was
checking the price like every five
minutes and and I and then I I knew that
no I'm too nerd to be dealing with this
just one I want to be Dutch with
programming and the background
technology rather than a prices
speculation so 





**Christian Seberino:**
yeah by the way where
anyway yeah I like I I mean I I like the
technology of aetherium classic I'm not
like I don't come up the first thing I
think of when I think of ethereal
classic is not okay I'm gonna you know
what's the price today how much is gonna
go up that I'm more interested in the
technology of it also 



**Carlo Vicari:**
I do it I do both
although I don't know the technology as
much as what's going on in the markets I
suppose but you know each each nerd has
his own thing




**Alan Verbner:**
 yeah and and what's crazy
it's like we it's there are a lot of
things we can do with blog chains and
they are related with with my context
like corruption like transparency like
values it's a value transfer value so
for me it's like and and that's why we
with my company we decided to move our
office into this space this crypto hub
called a Bitcoin embassy let's say it's
not a formal definition but our offices
there so we are we are within the
community so we believe this is this is
huge earth remind me to send 




**Carlo Vicari:**
you my
crypto prayer after after the show I
won't say it on here because it's too
embarrassing but I'll send it to you
after 





**Christian Seberino:**
so I'm imagining eventually these
some of these governments are not gonna
they're gonna fight back against Bitcoin
right because they're they're losing
money so I don't know if there's there's
gonna be some kind of turf war or
they're going to try to outlaw it what
do you think any thoughts on what
Argentina's gonna do





**Alan Verbner:**
I think they don't even understand
what's going on they might they say that
they're doing stuff out there there is
like a gray area here that they I don't
think they even are taking care of it
and so yeah it's a early
yeah it's too early so it's a big
opportunity for for us to do something
but but I'm not sure if Bitcoin is going
to be the one that succeeds or its idiom
classic or whatever I'm really into the
technology behind that and I'm I'm in
favor of improving the technology and I
was reading an article a couple of weeks
ago that that was like in my mind since
then it's about that now we are dealing
with something called fat protocols and
maybe I'm I didn't understand the
article well but this is the idea I got
and let's think about a big company any
one you want for example Airbnb Airbnb
has built their own business on top of a
really thin or let's say thin protocol
HTTP so they have a website users access
it use it and that's it and what about
aphelion for example you see them it's a
distributed platform that has value so
it's really crazy it's like the market
cap it's huge and if that hasn't even
exploded yet in terms of its rise in
every day so and companies are
struggling to build applications on top
of this platform that already has value
this protocol so for me it's like mind
blowing I am I'm still trying to figure
out and a lot of things came to my mind
after reaching blockchain for example
there is a lot of social interaction
economy all that stuff that for nurses
maybe it's it's not usual and so it's
it's crazy 




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah now I just for
clarification when you said thin and fat
protocol I assumed you meant a thin
protocol is relatively simple and a fat
one is relatively complex




**Alan Verbner:**
 yeah and most
of the value it's it's built on top of
this protocol in in let's say Airbnb I
mean you have HTTP you can request for a
for a resource you get the HTML you can
interact with JavaScript and a way
site but the only value it's within
Airbnb company and here you can trade
tokens
if you in tokens you can for example you
have some tokens or so ether on on
whatever you want to and you can move it
to somewhere else and the barriers are
like being and did you know how you
don't have those barriers that you have
little with Facebook that you have all
your life there so it's 




**Christian Seberino:**
so it's more
it's more distributed you're saying the
the value the control is not centralized




**Alan Verbner:**
that's right yes yes and every time that
people finds that this is useful they
are putting more money they are buying
more more more idiom classic tokens and
the price is going up so the the
protocol layer it's getting like thicker
so it's it's for me it's crazy I haven't
seen that before 






**Christian Seberino:**
yeah it also but you're
saying about Airbnb so I mean there's I
uh sometimes I hear talk about making a
blockchain equivalent to Airbnb or a
blockchain equivalent to Ober that seems
to be one thought process is converting
these old companies to do a blockchain
companies or smart contracts even that's
not laughs and 




**Alan Verbner:**
that's amending their
protocol so you need to the companies
need to find a way to attract people in
some way that you want to stay with them
not your you're not like a truck into
that



**Christian Seberino:**
 yeah yeah exactly 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah that's right
yep I think a lot of I think a lot of
talk about the uber and airbnb
blockchain stuff has to do with even in
the United States where states talk
about blocking out over blocking out
Airbnb so naturally the the free market
wants to find a solution which is to try
and go around those jurisdictions and
just do it





**Christian Seberino:**
 yeah that hadn't even
occurred to me there's a city here close
enemy I'm in Houston called Austin right
is they tried to block uber and I knew I
I had the idea we were just talking
about money right blockchain money
bypassing
but it never occurred to me that you
could use that's right you could it
would be a blockchain uber that could
bypass governments as well that's yeah
and father it 




Carlo Vicari:**
would be tough to do but I
think that's where those ideas pop up
like there's a project called swarm city
or swarm or swarm city or it was
actually our Cave City I think in the
beginning and it started out as a
promise of a decentralized Ebor in the
Austin area
I believe that's don't don't quote me on
it but I think that's where it started
but um
oh and Allen actually wanted to know um
so you got into blockchain you got into
Bitcoin naturally is kind of kind of the
first one how did you end up getting
into um you know working with et Cie in
ihk and everything and what even your
team yeah 





**Alan Verbner:**
yeah yeah yep sure
so being at these beacon embassy like
open some doors for us maybe it was just
when you want something
hey everything comes to you so and we
met a chance Jeremy and Niko's from ihk
and we're working with them and they are
really nice people and and we started
working they saw that we how we were and
how we work so everything started we
started working in other projects and
then this opportunity to be part of this
growth about to be created and we
applied and that's how we ended yeah
basically that's it 





**Carlo Vicari:**
nice no good I know
I I want to go to this Bitcoin embassy
right now you've mentioned it like five
different times so this is now my travel
list for 


**Alan Verbner:**
sure you are more than welcome



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah so youryour history didn't involve
you did you word you didn't have strong
opinions or about the fork and you
weren't in the mess before it so you
just came into it right - ethere IAM
classic which is kind of nice ely
avoided that whole mess apparently and



Alan Verbner:**
are you talking about the dowel forecast
stop the heart
well I have my opinion here if you hunt
if you wanted to know it yes I have an
opinion and 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah go for it yeah we you
don't whether you agree or disagree
gopher we want to hear all the honest
thoughts and stuff bring it 




**Alan Verbner:**
now of
course of course I'm not expecting in
just to come and kill myself no
basically and now I am against the a
fork and I mean they keep the idiom the
regular DC diem Jane I'm against that
and but I'm not as as a believer as most
other people are like no you cannot
trust on that other chain classic is the
the one and I think that for example
let's suppose that you have a business
an application that needed a blockchain
and you were like some sort of notary
service and those guys came and say okay
we were five this is wrong we made a
mistake this bag in the system we are
going to rob back the blockchain and if
I had that business I would say no man
what are you doing you didn't tell me
before that you were supposed to do that
if so I would pick another blockchain
so that changing the rules it's it
reminds me like my country when they do
whatever they want and that's not fun at
all
so I believe that and now I think that
classic day I understand what classic is
and I support it and if I want to use it
I know the rules and the other people
know that what what the other chain do
so and I'm not saying like oh I'm going
to kill the other guys I had written
against them and I'm hopefully I'm
hoping that we can all contribute and
find a to improve the technology I mean
so I don't have anything against them I
just I couldn't use it
III think that they enjoyed it it's a
it's a great property that I like Alicia




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I know what you mean I feel the
same way as well I I made a post a long
time ago I referenced this a bunch of
times I I posted that it's I think of it
more like a friendly friendly rivalry
now rather than you know each train
trying to battle to the death or
anything you know





**Christian Seberino:**
 yeah like at two
cities in a football rivalry 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yes exactly
exactly
good good Texas analogy 



**Alan Verbner:**
no I am we're
it's all about improving technology and
yeah I know that people has money
invested and they have made they may
have their savings and probably running
back the DAO issue was to protect those
people's I don't know and maybe the all
this Dow wasn't handled well this they
were receiving a lot of money and that
maybe was a strange but you know we are
it's all about technology and in the end
we are making a better world through
technology so it won't we don't need to
fight 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yep yep so now you mentioned
you mentioned the future of blockchain
and you know trying that's that's kind
of the goal and I think that's
everyone's goal or or most people's goal
that's in the space is just to try and
improve everything all the time and keep
pushing towards you know what we all
have as our own personal personal vision
of what blockchain could be what um what
kind of crazy use cases are what what do
you see in blockchain five years down
the road or ten years down the road 20
you know go nuts whatever whatever you
think is as wild as you want to get with
speculation is fine this is me as
scientific as as other things you know
like what's 



**Christian Seberino:**
your dream




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah that's a
good way of saying it




**Alan Verbner:**
 well I think the
first step is that block chains and
would be around us and but without
knowing for example let's say that you
know we have Wi-Fi signals all around we
can connect everywhere or there is a lot
of stuff that it's working behind the
scenes and people doesn't know and I
would love to see that luxury
are being used all around the globe and
people doesn't need to bother or okay
hey I need to buy some easier to use
this application or oh no I need to buy
these bitcoins to send these no it's
just okay I want to send this value over
here and blockchain it's behind the
scenes and that's my the first thing I
want to know I want to see that that I'm
hoping that that does it doesn't take
too long to see that and I'm there was
some talk that chars gave us about a
charge for my HK give us about okay
there is a huge power on what about if
block chains that are public they have a
lot of information about that and I'm
seeing about reputation and what what
I'm trying to say explain is that for
example we have a lot of poor people and
maybe those people are honest they are
decent they have never been in to travel
if you lend them money they return it
back to you they work hard they are good
people but they cannot get money from
banks because they are poor and even if
they want like a small amount of money
just to buy some materials - yeah create
something to sell they can't and if they
if they can they will be like with high
higher high interests so it's it's bad
for them
and what about if we used block chains
for example and as a source of a
reputation you know how if they pay if
they don't how they move their money
even if you don't see the people like oh
this is John and John is doing this but
you may enter fie some aspects of people
and I'm hoping that we were that block
chains might help improving this these
people helping these people that it's
outside the system and they will never
be in the system because it's not it's
not profitable for the banks to help
these kind of people and
and I'm hoping that maybe blockchain
scan can help us on that that will be
great



**Christian Seberino:**
 yeah that's I think a lot of
people have that that they are
interested in that bringing bringing
banking services to like the last
billion people that don't have banking
services through a like a smartphone and
your reputation idea certainly makes
sense that would that would incentivize
loans microloans to to poor people so
yeah that's that's a great idea 




**Alan Verbner:**
yeah
maybe if it doesn't come true at least
trying it's it's it's a good way to use
technology and I think and 





**Christian Seberino:**
yeah I mean
it's it's already happening like you've
heard a bit Pacer right the in Kenya the
banks were corrupt and they used bit
pacer to to bypass the banks so yeah
there's there's a lot of activity I
think bringing banking services to you
know communities 





**Alan Verbner:**
and isn't working like
people is yeah I love I was




**Christian Seberino:**
 yes I was in
Dubai talking to a Kenyan woman and she
said yeah they everybody uses big base
and they love it I've actually been
trying to get somebody that knows about
the base on the show to give some kind
of the human story of it maybe for the
future we'll see but yeah well so this
happening 






**Alan Verbner:**
oh I'm I'm waiting for that
for my job then honey 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah so but why
don't we talk about the what you're
doing with IOH kay now I know you're
working it you said with that I think
are the skates scala client so I'm
really interested in hearing about that
and other projects you're working it





**Alan Verbner:**
 oh
sure okay so I'm part of the growth in
the team and the project manager is Alan
McSherry which has been on the show I
think it was on in the earliest episodes
and and we are a distributed team Alan
is located in is based on Ireland and we
are two people in Argentina to ethics
team members and
and f3 guys in Poland and so we are
building this client from scratch I mean
we are based we started let's say with a
blank notepad and the yellow paper and
started coding it and it's a great
experience I mean it's really fun and we
are a really motivated team in terms of
you know sometimes I am I find myself
during weekend thinking about idiom and
in the things that needs to be done and
it's great and we have met we have like
a dis meeting in Athens I think it two
months ago so we we are we are a great
team we have had our beers together and
it's a it's what amazed me most about
this team is that we are fighting to
grab the best tasks sometimes you know
there are people that say oh no I want
to do this task it's easier and they
just they are lazy no we are fighting
constantly to get the better tasks and
yeah we are really really motivated I
think it's because of here which fun I
guess I don't know 





**Christian Seberino:**
no III when I heard
about that
Scala client I was kind of envious it
just seemed really cool to spend a
couple weeks months going through the
yellow paper and encoding everything
from the ground up and all so that was
that was great that you know the the
amount of knowledge you guys are going
to obtain from going through that
process you're gonna know you know
basically almost everything they'll be
like no question you can't answer pretty
much after you go through that process
so that I just seemed like a really
great 




**Alan Verbner:**
thing you guys are doing no think
you know and it's it's I mean we are not
like the super experts but yeah we have
for example it was a really fun
experience after finishing all these IBM
coding and running the whole blockchain
through our code it was it was really
really fun it we have like
it's it's everything on github we have a
wiki page with all the box that we found
you can check it out it's open source
it's public you can get into it you can
download whatever you want to it free
and it was really fun it was like
playing a video game chasing those bug
was close
oh that does work really really fun so





**Christian Seberino:**
so you have a scholar client does it
also have a miner does it run a full
node or and 




**Alan Verbner:**
we have Jack we have running
on integration with ETH miner and and I
think that for this next release this
beta release which is coming in a couple
of months I guess I don't want to give
you dates
I don't want time to give me but and we
I think we will only be integrated with
ETH miner but the idea is to create a
simple miner maybe to create some
private change and Sutton




**Christian Seberino:**
 so really like
you could run the whole network within
on Scala code eventually because you
guys are going to implement everything
in Scala dan is that correct 




**Alan Verbner:**
yes yes and
all functional style and so yes yes yes




**Christian Seberino:**
so if anybody that wants to study the
technology of the theorem classic they
can let they have several whatever their
favorite language is right they can pick
a client and go and try to understand
everything in the code so yeah that's
great we're having another good
implementation 




**Alan Verbner:**
yeah and and there are
two things that I like about using Scala
besides using Scala and the first one is
that we are in trying to create this the
decoding layers in terms of improving
experimentation so people will be able
to just replace the I don't of the
consensus part and use the whole code
and also as it runs on the JVM people
might can just integrate it with his
other code and yeah that that's that's
really interesting there are a lot of
Java developers
so maybe they it's fine for them just to
try 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah so that was that's a nice thing
about scholars you have access to all
the the jvm libraries the Java libraries
so do you find yourself using a lot of
those libraries is that help that that
Scala head lets you do that and





**Alan Verbner:**
 yeah we
have used some libraries but III won't
say that yeah we have used all of these
Java libraries no no it's we have used a
I can every for example from Scala so we
have like a lot of piece of code there
and they called it for me at least for
me it's it's clear it's not like oh it's
super complicated if you want to spend
some time reading source code just do it
because it's it's it's entertaining at
least it's not like a puzzle or whatever
yeah 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah now I was watching an
interview with Charles he had they
reimplemented Bitcoin and score X I
believe it was you might be more
familiar with that and he said that
their code was the amount it was shorter
smaller code base to re-implement
Bitcoin I don't know why they were doing
better and cleaner but I was wondering
if your Scala client would be you know
tighter smaller footprint than the other
clients 




**Alan Verbner:**
why yang's kinda you usually
write this code and I have Java
background and I found myself several
times just typing and like like a zombie
and because you it requires a lot of
code to do stuff and skylights like if
it's cleaner and with it's more
expressive so you can write more
beautiful code so sometimes I start
screaming at the office I'll I love
Scala because I've seen the III when I
see some code that maybe I or other of
the team members has written and say oh
this is beautiful and I haven't heard
this a nice way yeah that explains with
Java 




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah
so it might be in the future it might
even be a good educational resource like
I was to go if somebody wants to learn
again about the technology to choose
Scala look at your codebase first
because maybe it's shorter like you said
more expressive it might be something
for a beginner to pick up 




**Alan Verbner:**
yeah of course
of course and actually I really like to
do that to just dig into source code
just understand stuff and I it will be
awesome that some people just to
understand easier more either if you are
Scala just be a ginger go
yeah it would be great 



**Christian Seberino:**
let's uh curious
about that can I ask one last question
about the scala client so the yellow
paper that you're that's the standard
did you see any issues when you were
trying to integrate with let's say the
Geth client and write parity was there
was there any corner cases or really
tricky issues trying to make all of the
one work together 




**Alan Verbner:**
uh well yeah first of
all the that paper it's not an easy one




**Christian Seberino:**
yes that's what I was one of those
getting at - 




**Alan Verbner:**
yeah it's a it's a little
bit complicated I'm not sure why and but
we were like seven people working on it
so I don't know we were able to to
bypass that the first step and and yeah
I mean we have found some issues and
it's hard to maintain a documentation
and this paper might I mean clients
might have taken some decisions and it's
all-out consensus between clients -
besides the network you have I don't
know get instances you have party
instances and they all need to work so
yeah we have found some stuff and we
have created some pull requests or we
have raised her hand and open some
issues on kick em on a yellow paper
we have repository and and yet we and if
I know I said yeah we saw
from scratch but it's not like we are
not you're




**Christian Seberino:**
 not advancing you're just
learning the existing technology 





**Alan Verbner:**
yeah
and we are we are we are using for
example we cannot connect you party
there is an issue and we weren't able to
connect to parity okay let's look into
parity code it's not like we're not
going to look at gas or parity or
anything Jay or any other implementation
no no that that's not we don't have
anything against them they are really
really good implementations and a lot of
effort has been done there and but 




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah
I with yellow paper complete Victor it
does it does it account for all the
different corner cases because if the if
the yellow paper has everything there
shouldn't be any issues integrating with
the parity client or the get client
right ah 


**Alan Verbner:**
yeah yeah yes you're



**Christian Seberino:**
analytically here I yeah yeah I had I
was just trying to get this what do you
what do you think of the yellow paper
general I guess is what I was getting it
you think it was pretty thorough pretty
complete pretty 




**Alan Verbner:**
it's it's quite
extensive but I think it's hard to read
so maybe you might need some details
because it's hard not because and I mean
I would have written it more simple in a
simple way but you know a lot of effort
has been done there yet so I don't want
to say hey these paper is like it's bad
no no no no no yeah but yet some
improvements can be done and but you
know all the all the other clients have
gone through it so and you know that
they are not looking to to maybe they
are not trying to fix those issues in
the those bags on the yellow paper 




**Carlo Vicari:**
Alan
have you ever seen the visual
representation of the yellow paper
before that know that I got a I gotta
send that to you it's pretty it's pretty
interesting




**Alan Verbner:**
 okay so at 



**Carlo Vicari:**
least also from
at least also for someone who reads the
yellow paper and doesn't get it at all I
like the the picture book I guess you
could say but uh oh I wanted to ask this
before too too
start the flame war what's the UH what's
your favorite or what do you think the
best programming languages in your
opinion ah yeah yeah let's start that




**Alan Verbner:**
now I I really really enjoy and I think
it's like the best okay the best
language is Scala and it's really we I
enjoy coding Scala maybe when it doesn't
work every enjoy using it and but you
know I'm not a I don't have anything
against any other languages besides PHP




**Carlo Vicari:**
so hey besides PHP I got a what what's wrong with it



**Alan Verbner:**
yeah I think it's it's a little bit old
I haven't get up in we need for a long
time but now we have a joke as jokes
aside and I'm pragmatic so I am I use
whatever it works best and if you say
hey this is best this is better why
because these days and this okay let's
try it
I am NOT a fundamentalist I I'm not like
those believers yeah yeah I'm not I'm
not saying that you can you can bring
any language or whatever and say and I
will say oh it's but it's the best no I
need some I need the reasons behind I
need to understand the reasons behind
your your your statements but once I I
think they're ripe yeah I don't have
anything against that yeah so no I'm not
going into that more 




**Carlo Vicari:**
Christian thinks
PHP is the best 





**Christian Seberino:**
no that's all I don't
like PHP then I'm a Python fan I wish
there was more activity developing a
theorem classic code in Python but
that's just my opinion




**Carlo Vicari:**
poor poor PHP no one likes PHP yeah but
um I was gonna say uh what uh have you
ever had to develop anything in a what's
your worst development experience that's
a good one cuz I was gonna ask about
what's the worst language you had to use
so far but what's the worst development
experience you've had you don't have to
get specific about the project but
oh good if you have anything that
anything that went wrong or just you
know maybe it was early in your
programming days long time ago and you
didn't know something and you you
bricked yeah who knows what





**Alan Verbner:**
 uh I am NOT
going to write this because of the
project but when a long time ago and I
work for company with how the project
with this guy that was Queen Harry we
did 




**Carlo Vicari:**
very very vague perfect we worked
for a company with a project with a guy
there yeah you're about to say how bad
the project was he keep it very vague I
don't wanna get you trouble



**Alan Verbner:**
no and I and we had to develop these and
Microsoft Excel plugin to interact with
some web services to get some training
data and the probe donor was cool the
company they were awesome about this
project I don't know I thought was it
after some Germany I was thinking okay
I'm doing this and this won't be used by
anyone and I'm not learning anything
just a Excel plug-in that will grab some
data and yeah I might say that the worst
experience in terms of of my personal
career and my expectation as human being
that knows how to code 




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah so so um I
what's the kind of overall what would
you say like what percentage of the all
the things you want to get done with the
your scholar work is completed or okay
versed 70% or 




**Alan Verbner:**
well I don't know if
you're asking about Scala just Scala
it's difficult because I don't know I
like to think about programming and my
premiere skills and 





**Christian Seberino:**
know what I was
getting at was like is this is 






**Carlo Vicari:**
how close
how close you are to completion in your
estimate that's 



**Christian Seberino:**
are you going to finish
it and go do something else or are you
going to finish it and then make you
know research to try to make
modifications improve
so what's another future 




**Alan Verbner:**
no no no no I
am not seeing the end of the channel yet
and there is a lot of work to be that
needs to be done and I'm happy to be
part of that team and continue working
on the this codebase I'm really happy
coding everyday or anything in classic
so 






**Christian Seberino:**
okay yeah you'll be quite a resource
when you are you are a resource quite a
resource but when you know if you're if
you've gone through the entire yellow
paper and implemented you know so much




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah that's right he's gonna be a beast
he is a beast



**Christian Seberino:**
 come to you will come to
you with all our questions then 





**Alan Verbner:**
no no
and I think I might say that it's the
whole team for example I I don't know
all the parts of the code it's because
it's quite extensive and it's a team and
I'm hoping to continue be partying of
every part of it so I don't have any
other expectations in the short term




**Carlo Vicari:**
 ok
ok they they are gonna be a beast yeah I
pretty much 



**Christian Seberino:**
I've I've asked all the I
think I asked all the questions I had
was there anything Alan or Carlo that
that I missed or that anybody you got
you wanted to say that I we didn't
mention it uh 



**Carlo Vicari:**
no I think that pretty
much that pretty much covers it for me I
think we touched on all the spots we got
the background we got you know
blockchain et Cie the Scala client
future use cases Argentina I think we
covered a lot of stuff 



**Christian Seberino:**
yes I know but
evenings uh yeah got kids I was going to
say so nobody could say that aetherium
classic doesn't have deep technological
experience in with of the technology
right you guys are the shining example
of that so so yes a very important
project what you guys are working 




**Alan Verbner:**
on and
then and one thing that extra is that we
really want to work on these we are not
doing this for any other reasons besides
it's really fun it's interesting and we
love that technology and even classic
it's awesome for us it's really happy
yep 



**Carlo Vicari:**
awesome I mean everybody's really
happy to have you part of the community
great to have you on the show I'd love
to you know have more of you guys on
here to talk more about you know
backgrounds and a client et Cie and
whatever you guys want to talk about
actually I do have one last question
this is uh goes back to my older sister
she always thought I should throw this
on the show uh any books movies or
anything like that you're reading or
watching shows or you're just uh just
dabbing non-stop 




**Alan Verbner:**
yeah yeah I might say
yes but I'm starting to read about money
history of money Hey interesting yeah we
are we all that are involved in crypto
we end up with trying to figure out that
and yeah so I'm I'm trying to explore
that and also and behavioral economics
and for for me it's really crazy to see
people being scammed every time and
making bad decisions and and it seems
like they are being irrational so I'm
trying to figure out that -



**Christian Seberino:**
 I think 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah
that there's you're gonna have to read a
lot of books on that 



**Christian Seberino:**
and take your
lifetime to figure that



**Alan Verbner:**
 yes yes 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah you
have your reading cut out for you if
that's if that's your goal to figure out
why people are irrational good luck to
you sir 





**Alan Verbner:**
well I I rather spend time doing
that done reading other stuff I guess
yeah it's a nice 





**Carlo Vicari:**
one I agree with the
almond I'm a nonfiction person too so



**Alan Verbner:**
yeah and that's that's what it's on my
mind these days 



**Carlo Vicari:**
that's a good good stuff
to have on the mind but um anyway I just
want to thank you for for coming on and
Christian thank you again for you know I
want to say co-hosting the show but you
asked all the good questions so you're
you're really the host like ninety
ninety-five percent of the time but I
just do the introduction in the outro
but in any case um you know thank you
guys for
uh coming on and Ellen we'd love to have
you on again sometime and hopefully we
can get some more great people from the
community from the grown teak team and
from etc' dev on coming up in in future
shows everybody out there who's
listening thanks for tuning in until
next time Cheers hi guys



**Christian Seberino:**
if you are passionate about anything
related to a theory of classic and you
have something to say we'd love to
discuss that with you on the show we're
always looking for interesting guests
frame/s
you
