# Let's Talk ETC: ETCBets.com Featuring Lobos (Robert).
**Carlo Vicari:**
hi everyone and thank you for listening
- lets talk etc' I'm your host karlovy
along with my co-host dr. Christian
Severino again I'd like to thank all the
e.t.c devs investors miners and other
community members for another excellent
week um I usually don't talk about
markets too much but the crypto markets
have been insane the last couple of
weeks so I just had to touch upon that
and you know I know anyone out there
who's into crypto has just been riding
this nuts roller coaster for I don't
know how long when's it going to end who
knows but it's definitely a fun ride
another thing that I want to talk to
everybody about there's an ET cie poll
going on right now which we'll put in
the description if you're listening on
youtube right now ET cie is ahead I'm
going to check this out I think looks
like we're ahead by quite a quite a few
percentage points against some of the
other crypto so if you could click that
link and give UTC a vote that would be
pretty awesome now I'm going to move on
to the the main focus of the show
tonight and it's on a platform that's
been deployed on et Cie network called
et Cie bets we have really great guests
with us tonight he's known as the crypto
community for quite a long time special
guest Rob aka Lobos Rob what's going on
thanks so much for being on thanks for
joining the show



**Robert:**
 hey guys how are you
glad to be here oh 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah absolutely



**Christian Seberino:**
welcome



**Robert:**
 yeah thank you 



**Carlo Vicari:**
so um
Rob something we like to do typically on
the show is a lot of people out there
you know they're interested in DTC
they're interested in the community
they're interested in the chain and the
platform but they don't necessarily know
the people behind the scenes that are
working on different aspects of the
project so we just like to bring
everybody on here at least for their
first time on and just kind of give a
quick intro for how they got into tech
have you gotten to crypto and stuff like
that so once you tell everybody that's
listening a little bit about your your
background and stuff like that 




**Robert:**
sure
thing um
yeah I'm one of the I guess lucky people
who sort of found programming to be
their calling um I first started
programming I like it
point 35 years ago on mom when I laid my
hands on I had a little like toy
computer like a Sinclair ZX Spectrum arm
and then in high school I got to do to
bang on Apple 2 and it was really really
obvious to me very quickly that you know
this this was really interesting and I
was and I was good at it and um you know
it's arts you know spent a few years in
high school in high school writing you
know basic code and stuff like this and
then Pascal and then went on to study
computer science at a Carnegie Mellon
University and been a developer ever
since basically arm I worked for a you
know for for research lab for IBM then
that didn't last too long because this
was at the time that IBM lost billions
of dollars a quarter on out he had this
1990 91 92 arm 



**Carlo Vicari:**
you were trying to save
them but it wasn't working



**Robert:**
yeah I thought at that point that wasn't
ready to save anything really
I mean you graduate you graduate from
college and you know you learn a lot of
stuff at college and you sort of stay in
car I know it all and then you are you
know getting a real job and you realize
you really know close to nothing
um so you know it takes it takes a few
years from there to really know what
you're doing and then I got a job at
Oracle at the or at the European Oracle
porting group which was porting you know
it's it's database and tool suite on to
various European unique UNIX platforms
um and at that at that job alerts I
learned a lot of like sort of you know
large-scale development skills this was
in like 93 94 95 and back then the
Oracle source code was like two
gigabytes of code which now does now
doesn't sound so so scary but you know
back in 92 that was an insane amount of
code
and you know we'd spent I don't know
it's been three four weeks compiling
code for each release and then you know
the first time you tried to start it up
of course nothing worked you know you
watched you launched debuggers and stuff
like that and you know eventually got it
to work but so that was the most really
good doesn't really good experience in
terms of you not playing large scale
development you know see pointers to
pointers to pointers to pointers and
stuff like that yeah arm so that was
really good and then I went on to work
for a few other companies and in 2000 I
went to work for a web startup from
California called Blue Martini arm which
no longer existed it's in its original
form but back then was actually a really
sort of you know up-and-coming company
until the dot-com crash um but you know
that sort of got me into web development
and down Dever some sort of you know
they had they had sort of feel
enterprise type customers so you're
thinking about you know harley-davidson
AT&T; things like that right and I was in
Europe so Europe it was like Schiphol
like the Dutch Airport Lufthansa there
their web store for like they're miles
program you know stuff like that


**Carlo Vicari:**
 major
major stuff



**Robert:**
 new stuff big big stuff
multi-million dollar implementations arm
you know big teams arm the biggest team
I ever worked with was like public like
70 or 80 people in Japan Jane table for
four
Panasonic holding company arm and again
you know good good experience good stuff
and that was all in Java and oh



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah I
was gonna say now the twenty nine
billion dollar question how did what was
your your crypto that bottle 



**Christian Seberino:**
weightless
top so that way
I got asked one question so Roberts
small world I'm gonna teach a class on
block chains to Oracle Europe F at the
beginning true that's true that's
interesting that you're go
then you're gonna use to work for them
their salespeople are you are but 


**Robert:**
we're
European Netherlands or in the UK


**Christian Seberino:**
 UK you
saw their sales people their sales
people kept getting asked about
blockchains
and so they figured they better do a
class to learn what all this fuss is
about so they could answer right query




**Robert:**
well Oracle Oracle is an interesting
company in the sense that they are they
have like their own sort of software
universe right um they're so big and
have so many products and no now again
of course they own Java and my sequel
and everything that I mean you know I
have colleagues from from 20 years ago
who still work at Oracle right and
who've you know done various roles in
Oracle you know every once in while I
still talk to them um and they're really
literally in their own universe it's a
really interesting company from that
point of view it's it's also an
interesting company from you know from
other perspectives you know oh yeah and
and of course they have Oracle Oracle
database which you know is expensive and
not easy to maintain but you know it
does does what it does really well and
you know if you have the money for it
then you know it's for certain types of
applications it's it's great right 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah
and I gotta ask you one more question so
when you said that you programmed and C
with pointers to pointers to pointers
and so on that was music to my ears that
reminds me of the good old days and but
the question I want to ask you since you
said you use basic and I'm going to be
dating myself but did you ever use the
go to command well yeah okay



**Robert:**
of course 




**Christian Seberino:**
look any code right jumps all
over the place 





**Robert:**
yeah oh you have to
diverse there was no other way of doing
things
yeah um and I mean that was you know
that was the nice thing about
programming back then was right software
was really simple I mean you know real
software was written in like you know
machine code or assembly or something
but you know you could learn enough in
you know caffeine in half a year or a
year to write you know reasonable
software right and yeah to write
software that was comparable to a
professional product
you know 




**Carlo Vicari:**
what was I doing back then I
think I was walking around now I was in
a stroller probably I might I might not
have even been thought of sit






**Robert:**
 yeah I
mean you know you were programming you
know you had you had 48k of RAM and you
know you were like well this is great I
have a huge machine right of course it's
laughable now but back then that's
that's what we dealt with right on and
and then you got into into these silly
situations where if you program got too
big and you started the graphics mode
the graphics mode going to RAM and
overwrite part of your program and stuff
like that so you know swapping things
out to disk and then load them back in
and stuff like that I mean really stupid
stuff but it teaches you a certain sort
of I guess you know I mean the computers
we use these days are absolutely amazing
right and the people who grow up with
them have I think often not much of a
sense of perspective you know wasn't
came from it 




**Carlo Vicari:**
no no idea but no no I I do
I do appreciate computers and and you
know how far they've come there's a I
always referred to like there's a
there's a funny louis c.k skit where he
talks about someone complaining about
their flight and then he talks about how
they have to realize it's such a miracle
that they're even you know traveling
this distance in such a fast period of
time where if they did it you know like
a 150 or 200 years ago they would take
them like three months and there would
be different people by the end of the
trip or something





**Robert:**
 oh absolutely I mean
but you know I mean even that that that
works for for lots of things right I
mean if you if you drive a couple of
hundred kilometers or miles in one day
that's normal you know 150 years ago
that was a two-week trip right oh so
yeah I mean we live in in amazing times
and you know we just don't think about
it a lot was that's what we will every
day right but it's sometimes good to
step back and consider the advances
which which we use every day




**Christian Seberino:**
very right speaking of you know travel
and how amazing it is I was in Dubai I
live in Houston and I went there taught
a blockchain class for two days and then
came back so
that's just kind of odd that you go you
know halfway around the world the
teacher class two days hellogoodbye and
you come back but the one thing Robert
that they haven't invented yet is how to
fix the jet lag they could get you there
fast but the jet like oh my god that was
annoying unbearable Oh





**Robert:**
 tell me about it
when I when I used to work for four you
know sort of the startup from California
I probably flew out over the course of
you know I don't know three years
probably flew out like 20 or 30 times to
San Francisco um and every time was just
you know the first the first two three
days were brutal because you were just
have totally different internal schedule
um and it takes a while to adjust the
net result of that time is I I really
don't like to travel anymore because I
travel too much 




**Carlo Vicari:**
so so we're going from
you know but 200 years ago they would
take a horse and carriage across the
country to take five months and now
Christians flying to a foreign country
on a jet talking about a technology that
didn't exist ten years ago so how did
dumb how'd you get into to crypto Robert
what's your let's here because we got
your text story but um you know everyone
has their own different weird story for
how they got into blockchain and
cryptocurrency and stuff like that





**Robert:**
well I I could have gotten into cook too
much better than then I did I I read
about briefly about Bitcoin very early
on yeah and my first reaction was to be
blunt you know yeah who gives a rat's
ass right I mean why should I care and I
ignored even forgot about it and then
sorry of course if I would've bought you
know ten thousand dollars worth of
Bitcoin back then I'd be a very happy
guy right now um of course I didn't and
then a couple of a couple of years ago I
was talking to one of my my buddies from
Carnegie Mellon Tarrant that I keep in
touch with from time to time and he's
like if you heard about this Bitcoin
thing and I'm like yeah I heard about it
yeah why should I care
and he's like look I mean you're a
techie you want to check this out cuz I
think there's there's something to this
yeah and you know and that sort of
prompted me to sort of you know do a 180
go back to who - to Bitcoin read about
it and then and then I discovered the
whole all coin thing which um you know I
mean I mean the debates technology for
for all all these all these all coins is
the same right there are basically
Bitcoin clones with various features
added subtracted to changed or whatever
right but the fact that you even have
the fact that you have this whole Alcorn
Universe was initially even more
fascinating to me than then the fact
that you had Bitcoin because that was
like sort of um you know it can be in
Cambrian explosion moment for me it's
like wow what is what is going on here
right yeah so that's that's when I got
into into into sort of crypto in general
and then because I'm good at writing
software and and basically web software
these these days right so um I I helped
some groups fix some of their websites
and stuff like that and and I met burn
and and so one thing led to another we
kept in touch we've been trading all
coins and well for years five whether it
is five years later here we are
yeah um no I got a so I got into crypt
in a very roundabout that stupid way but
you know well it has that's the way that




**Carlo Vicari:**
don't worry I think a lot of people read
about it and wrote it off pretty early
not 



**Christian Seberino:**
so what what El Castillo some people
what all coins Robert were you into hi




**Robert:**
 I
wasn't really any to alt coins in a
sense I was like yet this is the thing
but the thing that fascinated me was
that um first of all you could create an
altcoin I mean did they even I don't
know if it still exists back then they
even had like an automated service that
could like you know create an altcoin
for you um and until around 


**Carlo Vicari:**
it's still
around at the end 




**Robert:**
yeah and I mean just a
whole concept of
you know you can create your own coin
now whether there's any use to that or
not that's a different question right
but that looks like it's kind of like
the printing press all over I mean you
know you had this thing with the web
right all of a sudden
anybody could publish anything right um
um of course then you know believe we
see what that leads to and we have lots
of pictures of cats on the internet and
stuff but and the same de same with
altcoin
right anybody can launch your own
currency now is that good or bad I don't
know I mean we'll see we'll see what
that leads to right but I mean it
certainly led to a lot of innovation
that would tell us what was really
interesting to me in the sense you know
look at what's going on because you know
again you know I remember the internet
went in I mean in college when I was in
college there was no internet as it is
now right we had FTP and telnet and we
were happy to have that basically arm
and and Usenet was called back then um
and then the internet came along and the
internet first was I mean if you look at
websites from from the late 90s I mean
you know did look horrible and they do
nothing and it's a bit of text and you
know some ugly graphics and you know 20
years later look at what we have now
right I mean here we're talking over
Google hangout hangouts
um so that thought sort of was
fascinating for me about the altcoin
thing right I mean anybody can create
their own currency and um an entity to
sort of implications for that both for
for you know what it meant to be a
currency but also you know but it what
it meant for for innovating on that
level because you know I don't then you
start following all coins and then you
have like you know these these various
phases so then then you have the
anonymous phase right anonymous
transactions and then you have like Owen
Adams transactions over tor and then you
have either I don't know what else you
know I mean I stopped tracking all this
stuff awhile ago
now you 




**Carlo Vicari:**
can't can't keep up there's too
much so much development all the time
harden




**Robert:**
 exactly and you know and then
eventually you come you know you come to
a theorem and then this hiriam classic
right which is basically a virtual
machine running on top off watching arm
and right
so that that's what I find really
interesting about it it does sort of
innovation space that's that's opened up







**Carlo Vicari:**
right now you guys want obviously sorry
no go ahead 




**Robert:**
no I mean that's pretty much
it I mean it's it's it's it's kind of
like the like the mobile space opening
up right this new space opens up and all
sudden you know a couple years later you
have you know I don't know 10 million
mobile applications right um similar to
that Indian in India altcoin world and
what that does to to finance and what
does it mean to be a currency and you
know what what kind of currency do and
you know and then again like I said that
sort of leads to etherium right which is
you know programmable money basically




**Carlo Vicari:**

 so
so if they're iam drew your attention
and now you guys have have focused your
attention on you know building some
platforms and so I know I've spoken to
you guys have spoken to Bjorn
about the Janus team and I think the
listeners would be interested in knowing
a little bit more about the Janus team
and your what you guys are currently
working on a little bit about et Cie
bets 





**Robert:**
absolutely
so um so the Janus team is myself
you just got just you just heard me
ramble about myself um and and gern and
Lewis um and I might burn in the alcohol
world a few years ago and and I Buuren
is as far as I'm concerned an absolutely
brilliant marketing guy and not
marketing in sort of the classical sense
you know both get magazine ads and stuff
like that but sort of like in a viral
sense you know sort of online piece I
mean it comes up with ideas that I would
never have and I think most people would
never have and and he's he's really good
at that
um yeah and I realized that you know
after talking to him and seeing some of
his work and and he realized that I was
you know a really solid to developer so
at some point you know he came to me
look let's you know let's let's do
something together right and dad let led
to us creating better bets
and and then we were like okay so better
bets we have that now so what what do we
do next
and 



**Carlo Vicari:**
which better so fantastic by the way
oh 




**Robert:**
thank you it's a well it will be even
more fantastic once we upgrade it to the
new code base arm and yeah so and then
we said okay so let's do something let's
do something together and let's do
something you know that's that's maybe
with a bit bigger focus and so we we had
the idea of this look let's use let's
use crypto currencies to you know some
bootstrap a business get some investment
and and you know reward the investors
through some of the functions that you
know cryptocurrencies offer you right
and but I said I said um look but let's
let's step outside of crypto because you
know well you know if you're in crypto
it's it's easy to think that crypt list
is this huge wonderful space but in
reality it's tiny right compared to to
the rest of the world 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah all right
I always know time it's really tiny just
started yeah yeah 



**Robert:**
yeah and and so that
also means right so if you have you know
if you have a service um and you know I
don't know take something successful
shape-shift right
Polonia X right you have I don't know
10,000 customers 20,000 I don't know
right but I mean it's it's probably you
know that order of magnitude
right yeah well you know look at look at
the other extreme Facebook which is like
approaching 2 billion users right um so
so there's a huge gap in market size
between crypto and the real world right
um and and so before coming into crypto
I've been in the real world and I've
dealt with websites that get you know
tens of millions of hits and users a
year right um so I was like well let's
do something that bridges that and
there's like I like the idea we can make
it work um so so so that sort of where
Janis comes in on which and so what we
want to do is um
I basically use crypto as an enabler to
build you know build services and build
sites and bootstrap some ideas which
target mainstream but you know sort of
sneakily sort of use crypto under you
know under the hood maybe even



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah they
say that the the future where people are
using crypto or blockchain and they
don't even know it you know that's when
it's really developed




**Robert:**
 exactly I mean you
know that you can use it for for some
feature that you offer to your customers
and they don't even have to know it's
crypto right they don't even have to do
you know I mean the simplest example is
right say you have a website and you do
something I don't know loyalty points or
whatever you want to call them right
well you can you can to your customers
call it loyalty points but you know how
cool would it be if a year down the line
you know you have I don't know a a
functioning site and the reasonable
customer base and you can say oh by the
way for each loyalty point you get one I
don't know loyalty coin or whatever you
want to call it at that point in time um
and oh you can actually sell them and
trade them ah you know all sudden you've
introduced this whole whole group of
people to crypto who would have probably
never heard of it otherwise and uh you
know and expanded the crypto space by
doing so but actually built a real
business that is independent of crypto




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah be pretty well if people had
loyalty points that went up times 50
after a couple well something something
weird like that you know



**Robert:**
 then there
would be people like me who who ignored
Bitcoin and soldier loyalty points too
early and then would kick themselves but
you know so the focus of the Janus
project really is to to you know we got
some investments through through selling
the Janus token and so we're using that
money to to basically pay for our
development time and we're going to be
launching some some businesses and you
know websites yeah and um





**Christian Seberino:**
okay well now that's so that sounds
interesting so you decided to start a
business
and instead of getting venture capital
funding for your software Kaymer
so you're saying you made an altcoin to
get funding
did I vote




**Robert:**
 technically it's a next token
but yeah I mean it's it's it's it's
basically an altcoin
I mean but yeah it's it's a neck it's a
next token if we chose next because it
allows for first of all I think next is
a really cool project and coin arm and
it's technologically quite advanced but
it allows for easy distribution of
dividends




**Christian Seberino:**
 okay now but did you did you
um how did you market it or did you
already have people that wanted to
invest already and you just told them
well



**Robert:**
 we have to be at B first we first
tried to do an IC o---- and we abandoned
that because first of all we chose bad
timing I think we were sort of year end
which is when everybody's sort of tired
of I cos I think and second of all I
think we underestimated the amount of so
pre pre PR that has to go into an IC
o---- and the blah blah blah and also
yang so that that didn't work out as as
we hoped but we had a relatively loyal
call it a small but loyal fan base from
from better bets because through better
bets we also regenerate we didn't all
coin on better bets which which we sold
and you know some people got some profit
sharing from that so we had some people
who knew us and actually sort of
believed in sort of us as a team and you
know that we weren't gonna you know just
take their money and disappear basically
um 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah can end really important



**Robert:**
absolutely and and you know so so that
helped and that that sort of got the
ball rolling and you know then after a
while you know we haven't launched any
major major businesses yet we're in
development on them but you know were
kind of started spreading and you know
you were hitting certain milestones and
then doing doing what we promised to do
and then we actually you know sort of -
sold pretty much all the you know all
the tokens that we wanted to sell which
means that you know
we don't have you know we don't have
5000 BTC or anything like that but we
have enough to keep us going for a while
and and so this is this is where we are
so yeah the third guy on the team is
Luis who's been a community manager I'm
on on better bets and um and so that's
that's that's the three three of us and
so I do the dev dev work beyond just the
marketing work Luis does some of the
marketing work community work and stuff
like that um and and I'm a strong
believer in sort of small and focused
teams I've seen too many examples of
large teams just sort of getting lost
like I don't know where but like
hyperspace or something um so so I like
to keep it lean I do all the dev work at
this point in time eventually we'll
probably have to hire some people but
for now it's okay right 




**Carlo Vicari:**
um now um what
are your what are your impressions or
your team's impressions of vtc bets so
far how's everything been going with
that how's the response from community
and users and stuff like that 




**Christian Seberino:**
and also
why did you choose a PC




**Robert:**
oh yeah yes so so why did we choose etc'
because um we like we like the sort of
immutability aspect really I think
that's really central to to to to you
know what what a currency of course
currency doesn't have to be as we see
from our central bank's who print money
as they wish um but but we really like
that aspect and we think you know long
term that's going to be a great great
asset to have as a project idea law I
ideology if you want right um



**Carlo Vicari:**
 and you
know we every oh 


**Robert:**
yeah and the Burin
started talking to some of the ECT TC
people and um and they actually did this
behind my back at first Oh Mac because I
was between without her stuff and you
know he talks to people all the time so
you know nothing special about that but
then one day he came to me look we
really should look at doing something
with with EGC because um
the coin sort of really nicely aligns
with you know sort of what we want to do
and they have a great team and you know
the team is really receptive to our
ideas and they want you know they want
to work with us and help us where
possible and and you know that's sort of
how that got started and you know once
that happened I was like Buuren if you
think that's what we should do it that's
what we're going to do right um that
that aspect of the business
Ilia needs to be run I mean we talked
about sort of big strategic things we do
but you know if Buuren manages to
convince me and he did easily did so
easily
then you know then I'm not cool let's do
it so we took a you know we so that
finally gave us gave us a and a motive
to do get to working on the better bets
Co again which has been sort of language
because we can visit with other stuff so
we went on a mad development spree and
ripped out all the or ninety 90 percent
of the Ajax calls and replaced it with
WebSockets and that's what etc' bets is
now and we added another game and the
result has been a dramatic improvement
performance and a dramatic reduction in
server load and so from a technical side
they're really happy um we've processed
like three million bets in three days




**Christian Seberino:**
now just just for the people that are
listening so help me out Robert so Ajax
is a way for a browser to continue to
talk with the server in the background
and so people use that to make
responsive websites and so WebSockets
was a an improved standard for that what
they call a string synchronous
communication right 



**Robert:**
I'm used to sort of
yes the problem with Ajax is that it's
it it basically opens a new connection
every time you do you know you send a
command to the server um and so that's
that's long right and with WebSockets
you have a persistent connection um
which just is kept open you could just
send you know send commands and data
whatever you want to send through it arm
so to give you to give you in
and and about to do so that's that's one
side the other side is because of the
way the web works right um if you send
an ajax request that's basically arm you
know that's initializing a new web
request which means that your entire
state has to be built again on the
server so which means you have to sort
of you know select you know
select the user you don't see what their
sessions like select data uh you know
send something you know and do something
send something back and with WebSockets
you can move to a sort of application
server concept right you have a
continually running WebSocket server who
can keep state so for example you know
the most basic example new user object
is then in memory and you can just
update the state as needed you don't
have to select it from the database
again and still net 





**Carlo Vicari:**
that that great
technical question from Christian and
then my question is so non-technical
which is 3 million bets in two days
insane 




**Robert:**
actually it's it's really cool
actually because we used to be used to
top out at about or better bets on about
40 50 50 bits a second right literally
at that point our our database and
server was struggling yeah and now we're
we're having happening on top so far the
best we've had I think is about 80 bits
a second and our CPU load is like four
percent I mean 




**Carlo Vicari:**
it I get beside
ridiculous all that cool technical stuff
you guys were just talking about that
that's what makes those three million
bets possible correct






**Robert:**
 yes and it's
actually quite cool if you go to e.t.c
bets
um so e.t.c bets launched with two games
one one is sort of standard sort of dice
which which you all know from from you
know a million a million crypto betting
sites yeah and the other one is a which
we call parabolic which is basically
bust a bit arm which we fear it need to
run on PHP rather than nodejs because
that's where my area of expertise lies
right um and I wanted a piece of source
code I could actually control rather
than just run blindly
um so and if you go if you go on et Cie
bets and you go on dice and it's
actually pretty cool you see the bets
and zipping by in real time and it's a
it's it's really cool to watch and for
me as a dev I'm really happy to see how
that worked out because that you know
while while we're doing whatever 6070
bets a second you know I look on the
server and CPU load is close to nothing
it's it's absolutely absolutely cool 




**Christian Seberino:**
now
can you um just I'm not sure that
everybody knows about these gambling
dice games can you just kind of describe
that a little bit more as if the
audience doesn't know anything about
that how does that work do you bet on on
what the outcome of the roll of the dice
is or or what 





**Robert:**
bit but basically yes I
mean you you yeah it's you bet on the
number between 0 and 100 and depending
on what you bet that determines your
payout right so if you bet on say
smaller than 50 right then you have a
50% chance of winning which means you
payout is - okay arm and if you bet on
say smaller than 10 with a 10% chance of
winning your bet you payout is 10 right
10 times whatever you wager
um and the the big thing about the
crypto betting is which is actually very
cool is that first of all you have
typically have a low house edge of our
edge of about 1% arm which compared to
real gambling sort of fiat gambling
sites you know I mean tabled they would
hate that house edge those guys work
with like 30 40 percent house edge yeah
um and the other thing is that it's
provably share right so the way it's
implemented is is such that you have a
client seat which you can control if you
want but typically it's randomly
generated on the client so it's under
under the users control and the way the
the bet outcome is is determined is in
such a way that you can verify that um
you know you haven't been cheated and
that the bet outcome is s you know as it
was predetermined by the mathematics of
it rather than you know by someone
wanting you to lose 



**Christian Seberino:**
okay wait oh wait
I'm out okay so I'm I'm not a gambling
expert Carlo knows more about that than
I do but if you're if the house is
completely predictable then and the open
source the code is open on the
blockchain then how why doesn't
everybody know the future you see what
I'm saying where do you introduce the
random is for the house 




**Robert:**
well the rent I
mean it's not it's not that the house is
predictable in the sense that you can
tell you know one roll ahead what the
next roll is going to be but it's
provable and it's provable that you know
the actual outcome of a certain role was
as determined by the previous but by the
previously generated server hash and
your client seed right and a server
secret so it's not that you keep that
it's it's not predetermined because it's
never predetermined because you don't
know as the house you don't know the
client's seed right the clients it can
be 800 




**Christian Seberino:**
you just answered many questions
so yeah thank you for endless yeah the
client seed is the randomness you use
that randomness to get the house
randomness 




**Robert:**
they alter times there's a
client randomness and there's a server
randomness and together they generate
generate to see it but you know it's
together this all that information you



**Carlo Vicari:**
counts pretty random




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah right but now
hey wait I don't want to be in your
business but what you uh what you said
sounds a little bit like roulette and
craps which I know hardly anything about
but I would imagine if you made
literally a simulation of roulette and
craps I assume that would attract more
people so is that in the works





**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah by
the way I'm not saying that you should
or shouldn't do it but if there was a vr
crypto roulette I probably wouldn't have
any more Bitcoin left so please no one
make that I believe that Johnny I only
played and don't send me any control
about it I don't want to know about it
cuz make it but don't tell me about it
cuz I I really it's not
like I played a whole kind of craps but
I was in Vegas one time and play a
little bit it was pretty fun





**Robert:**
 yeah I mean
DC you know I mean let's be honest
gambling is sort of sort of a weird
thing right I mean if ya if you approach
gambling the way I approach it which is
you know I'll do it every once in a
while and you know I don't really I mean
it's great if you win if you lose tough
luck right set yourself a budget and if
you lose that you're done then it's then
it's great fun I think you know that the
problem is you know gambling is that it
can really mess up some people's lives
yeah um so so you know that




**Carlo Vicari:**
 I'm not I'm
not a big gambler at all I actually when
I went there I didn't even understand
how craps work so me and the person that
I was there with we were watching uh the
craps going and I was just trying to
figure out the game while everybody was
like you know winning money and then by
the time we rolled and understood the
game we rolled lost and then everybody
walked away that's pretty that was my it
was my first Vegas craps mo and then I
played a couple more times that was it
but anyway 






**Robert:**
yeah so so so the the crypto
gambling space is probably about as fair
as you can get in terms of that gambling
yeah um it's probably share the house
edge is low and so you know I mean it's
still gambling with with all its
potential issues attached but it's you
know I think and especially the good
thing with this crypto gambling is right
you can be you can bet ridiculously low
amounts right right so our our minimum
bet of on etc' bets is zero point zero
zero zero zero one et Cie um which is I
don't even know what that is
I mean it's it's you know 



**Carlo Vicari:**
anything that
in terms of law



**Robert:**
 yeah in terms of real
money it's like either the one 102
percent or something like that right so
I mean you can you can have you know
code on code fun for you know pretty
much close to no money um now if you
wanna you know wage or more that is your
prerogative but you know I think I think
this is about as fear of a gambling
environment as you can get
now the other game that we we put on is
it's a you know parabolic which is
basically bust a bit we written I don't
know if you guys know bust a bit yeah
that's actually really interesting game
into substance deceptively simple and
and really really cool and really you
know I mean that that has a certain
charm to it so so we got that and you
know we're thinking of having some what



**Carlo Vicari:**
bust a bit now the only thing I really
know about bust of it when I say no but
I really should say I know of it because
I think there was like a video of
someone playing it and winning a lot it
was like posted on reddit or something
like that but um if you could tell us a
little bit more about busts a bit and
maybe for the people listening kind of
what's going on with that 





**Robert:**
okay well um
so most of it door parabolic as we call
it 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yes parabolic 



**Robert:**
Greg it is um so the
server determines um you know a random
number based on that random number arm
you know it determines how high a
certain growth function will grow to and
then on your screen you see like this
real time graph growing you know towards
that number and you can set up you can
you can set like an auto cash out point
so you know you need sort of you know
you just you know say 2.30 it catches
you out automatically or you can cash
out by pressing a button and you know
the fun and skill is to sort of watch
that thing happen in real time and you
know try to try to be smart enough to
cash out on time where it 




**Christian Seberino:**
sounds like
you're simulating day trading or
technical investing
I guess II 





**Robert:**
yeah I mean it's it's it's a
just just you know give us a day or two
do to fix some launch bugs and come over
and just you know even if you don't play
just look at it it's it's actually quite
fun 






**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I saw the video it looks pretty
it looks like a wave that's rising is
that the one yeah yeah yeah and then you
just people click or something it's
strange




**Christian Seberino:**
now way I have it straight you as a
developer 




**Carlo Vicari:**
easily interesting



**Christian Seberino:**
 it is it
I'm dying to ask you a question Robert
so as a developer every time you make a
new game or add a new feature do you
just like lose sleep thinking about the
security and protecting yourself from
hackers losing all your losing
your friends 






**Robert:**
well not every not every
time I make a new game but every time I
make a new site yes um uh that big I
mean the games are relatively easy I
mean the biggest my biggest fear is that
you know somebody figures out a flaw on
our server and you know runs off with
our etc' arm I would be very unhappy if
that happened um but you know you sort
of know as a participant in that space
that you have a you have a target
painted on your foreheads basically um
and W I mean if I look at my server logs
it's it's quite funny you know that from
from the amount of random sort of
potentially dangerous commands that are
sent to our server or totally ridiculous




**Christian Seberino:**
oh wow okay so people know about you and
they're already gathered and trying okay





**Robert:**
Oh they've been different rying better
bets for the past I don't know two years
basically um it's a it's constant 





**Carlo Vicari:**
Java
security by the way Hey
oh 




**Robert:**
thank you I mean I've had my tea it's



**Carlo Vicari:**
not easy



**Robert:**
no and you really have to have to sort
of code defensively um and and and
that's a certain mindset you sort of
have to bring yourself to but you simply
cannot do any shortcuts I mean we had we
had one on better bets
we had one attack which succeeded in in
the cost of seven BTC luckily BTC was at
like 200 something bucks back then um
but we had we had one attack which
succeeded and that was literally like
the one place in the code where I had
been sloppy and you know they somehow
figured it out by it by you know doing
sort of automated penetration testing
not family and um yeah so I mean see




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah that's interesting I just thought
of a positive for you from that incident
so the if you have all these people that
are desperately trying to find the
vulnerability so you could think of it
as that you basically were you paid
fifteen hundred to have your code
audited yeah 



**Robert:**
yes yes that's good but
that is true 



**Carlo Vicari:**
pretty much um so this
might get a little bit techie for anyone
listening out there that's not take
but I got asked uh what was the vinyl
vulnerability if you don't mind me
asking if you don't want to discuss that
that's reasonable but 



**Robert:**
woman are two
perfectly perfectly fine to discuss it
lunar ability was the one spot where I
had been lazy or sort of in a rush and
said oh I'm not going to use a prepared
sequel statement here but I'll just
throw in the parameter right away into
the sequel statement and and you know
they found it and that was a way to
bypass to sort of do to a a sequel
injection attack and bypass our filters
and that was it man 




**Christian Seberino:**
okay well what
happens when you Robert when you hire
ten developers and how are you going to
make sure that each or hundred
developers each one of those developers
never gets lazy even for five minutes
before they submit those 




**Robert:**
well I mean the
one thing you have to do is and this
literally I mean this is with version
two of the better bets code basically
from then on we've been doing that is to
embed things things like that in the
architecture right so that a lot of the
stuff that you had to do manually now
you do automatic and and you really
can't screw it up
um the thing with with public facing
websites is you I have to you know you
simply have to make sure that these
things are done right I mean you know if
you have a public-facing web website
which is a news website you know I mean
you don't want to get hacked of course
but if you do nothing or a blight
happens right right if you give 



**Carlo Vicari:**
you
another different than money yeah




**Robert:**
 yeah
and if you kind of want to crypt a
wallet and a day you know if you
penetrate you and run off with it that's
that's bad news so um yeah you you
simply have to be careful and you know
that's that's why I at this point do all
the dev works because I want to make
sure it's done right that's not to say I
never make any that's not to say I never
make any mistakes but you know I've I've
been burned a few times and I know what
to what to be careful about




**Christian Seberino:**
yeah that's how you learn right making
mistakes even sadly to say getting
hacked that right those are sure that
you learn 




**Carlo Vicari:**
okay well I don't know what
collects anymore bounties from you
I don't think they will I know you got a
cover 




**Robert:**
well I'm pretty sure I do but you
know this is an evolving space you never
know but I'm you know I'm doing my best



**Carlo Vicari:**
do you uh you guys use any or not to you
but is it a common thing for a lot of
these people in the Bitcoin or crypto
betting side communities to use like
code auditors like certain code auditing
companies and stuff like that or are
they not even caught up to the
technology of what's going on and they
that they probably wouldn't even know
what to look for as much as you do 





**Robert:**
well
I mean deuce there's two things here
right one is one is to sit to secure it
if you website which arm you know if
you've been doing this for a while you
you know what to what to look for and
how to deal with that and the other one
is that the correctness of your
mathematical model right which which
powers your bets because if that's wrong
then your website you know doesn't have
to get after you to lose tons of money
so so those are the two things right so
for something like dice I mean the math
is pretty pretty basic right and they're
easily easily checked and the websites
you can run audit you know I mean you
can run automatic automatic penetration
testing tools and stuff like that um I
think I think the basic thing is really
to to code defensively
I mean it's simply you know that has to
be your mindset and you have to check
every input you cannot trust any user
input you know you really have to have
to be kind of paranoid when you write
code for this stuff 



**Carlo Vicari:**
so um with all this
experience that you guys have built up
from better bets and now EGC bets which
you know I'm saying three million
bethenny from such a short amount of
time which is awesome what's in store
for for the future of you guys for work
or business or just things in general
what what's in store for you guys 




**Robert:**
okay
so in store is is the expansion of the
Janus project into the real world and by
that I mean that we have very specific
plans for two or three websites that we
want to launch this year we commence
development on one of them
one of them is going to be sort of a
sort of very broad sort of news based
initiative
another one is going to be a sort of
Forex community initiative and a third
one is going to be probably although be
discussing some options there something
I'm targeting sort of the real estate
market which is a very interesting
market in itself um so basically you
know the plan now is to spend you know
spend a few days spend the week to to
get you know all the remaining bugs from
EGC bets ironed out because as we
transitioned all of the code from from
Ajax to WebSockets something sort of
fell under that table nothing major just
a few things which need to be ironed out
and and then really due to development
for photos of the real world businesses
and you know with probably some some
crypto stuff thrown in you know as a as
a sort of you know like I said sneak it
into your audience so they don't even
notes crypto but they use it 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah that's
like that's the key and maybe in the
future people will know they're using
crypto but that's a good mid to shorter
or short to mid-term strategy is where
they they're using it 




**Robert:**
yeah and and again
you know if you if you target if you
target the real world then you know them
you know you don't have to have a you
know it's 30 percent 20 percent ten
percent market penetration in order to
be successful right I mean if you you
know if seven billion people on the
planet right if you if you get you know
website with a couple of million users
who actually use it and pay for the
Serbs in some way you're you're good
and it's but in terms of like percentage
of people using it it's tiny right I
can't do that in crypto I think crypto
you have to get really a substantial
number of the crypto people involved in
your site for it to be sort of you know
a financial success arm so so that's
sort of what we're going to be focusing
on grow the real world business and some
of it is going to be sort of very um you
know sort of very significant web 2.0
and some of it is going to be I think
more traditional you know software
stuff like you know the realty stuff for
example when real estate is really
interesting market in the sense that you
know everybody uses it arm you know
everybody you know also rents a house or
an apartment um it's by definition
geographically separated right because
if you're looking for an apartment in
New York you don't care what happens in
Los Angeles yeah um and and a lot of
these real estates you know sort of
companies are are you know sort of
running on software that makes you
cringe and I know this because I have
some friends who are Realtors um 


**Carlo Vicari:**
they're
down so dyeing her black cane they are


**Robert:**
 I
believe I'm going to be shifted dying
for blockchain they're just dying for
modern software that actually works
right um and and I've actually done some
work in the Realty space before so I
sort of know what books you know what
these guys want what they need and how
to build it so that that could be you
know that could be one push and I think
you had a push of an idea the other
pushes we're going to do are going to be
more sort of like web 2.0 type stuff
right with people um you know signing up
for service and making use of that 



**Christian Seberino:**
so if
you need more funds for any of these
future businesses would you would you
try to have an altcoin a new altcoins to
raise funds
I'm just curious I was I'm still
intrigued by by year the way you raised
funds for the Janus team 





**Robert:**
um I don't you
know I don't know because this is really
this is really burns burns domain right
he's actually he's yeah yeah he knows I
mean he knows I know more about about
sort of Bitcoin altcoin space than I do
um and and I trust his judgment on that
he's he's good with that um having said
that you know I think I think we may we
may come to the to the market to the
crypto market you know maybe with for
another project that you know where we
say okay we're gonna need more funding
for that um but to put time as we as we
move along and sort of prove that we
actually sort of deliver on our promises
and you know that we're a team that can
be trusted
hopefully that that becomes easier right
I mean everything I would I would much
rather deal with you know I mean it's a
you know five or ten large investors
into a project right then having to deal
with mr. general crypto public were you
know did you know
the second your your your one to ten
minutes late on some some some deadline
right everybody you know and get these
scam accusations and stuff like that


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah it's crazy 



**Robert:**
its understandable I
mean me myself and Bjorn were caught in
the in the in the summer of scams I
believe those 2014 or 2013 I don't even
remember so it's I mean it's
understandable but you know I I don't
want to deal with all those people you
know sort of accusing me of you know
robbing them in their grandma which you
know that's that's not the business I'm
in you know on you know I'm I'm just
trying to build cool stuff basically and
so and you know and we're trying to
build cool stuff and you know make a
success out of that now you know can I
can I promise success no I can't no
company in the world can right but you
know I can promised it you know we're
not gonna you know we're not gonna steal
your funds run away with them you know
or do anything other do anything else
that is so shady right and we'll work
them hard trying to make it a success
and that's 



**Carlo Vicari:**
nice guys have a you know
excellent track record of you know in in
the crypto community with better bets
and now et Cie bets and you know bunch
of bunch of projects you've been a
developer for so long 




**Christian Seberino:**
maybe you have to
have you back on the show when you have
another application that you're lost for




**Carlo Vicari:**
sure for sure



**Robert:**
 I'd be happy to come back



**Carlo Vicari:**
you know what I was going to say so so
another question that we like to ask
some of our guests is uh you know we
kind of got a little bit of the past the
present and a little bit of the near to
mid term futures but what some weird you
know it can be what way off the wall use
cases that you see for blockchain give
us your blockchain 2050 2050 future what
does it look like in 50 years or 100
years
you know what are some weird things you
see black cane being used for 




**Robert:**
everything
yeah really
literally everything but I think I think
that literally the most interesting
interesting development in that space
has been very many theorem classic arm
and and the possibilities you know that
entire model brings with it with itself
right I think that's the kind of deal
where at this point we don't even
understand what the possibilities are
yeah it's kind of kind of like you know
do the web in in the late 90s yeah you
can do a web page and you know that has
maybe a few pictures in it and that's it
and you know your first reaction would
be great what does this get me and you
know look 20 years later where we are




**Carlo Vicari:**
right right big businesses we're
treating it like a flyer or something
I didn't even know what to do it 



**Robert:**
yeah
but even fan but but even you know and
even even myself as a developer I'm like
if this you know who cares right well 20
years later everything runs on that
right so I think that's very much the
same the same sort of situation with
smart contracts program programmable
money and stuff like that yeah um yeah
it's too early to tell what that will
lead to um but it's I'm convinced it's
you know that's the first step in the
evolution of that entire technology
space which is going to lead to lots
lots of interesting things yeah um now
in all honesty right is is aetherium or
theory and classic you know the
technology that's going to make it um
you know I I think it has a good shot I
hope so but who knows it's too early to
tell right um 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah it's like it's like
you know in the in the mid in the mid to
late 90s how do you tell what's Amazon
what's Google you know it's hard to yeah
it's hard to yeah hard to pick out of
the bunch I agree but yeah there's no
definitely have your your blue chips and
your the projects that have have more
development and more fun than others for


**Christian Seberino:**
sure absolutely 




**Robert:**
but I think yeah I please 



**Christian Seberino:**
well would you agree with this
though so whether whether it is or is
ethereal classic or aetherium it
probably has to be something similar it
has to be a world computer with the
general purpose during complete smart
contract language and the reason I say
that was you started at the beginning of
the show you talked about how everybody
can make an altcoin and fork the Bitcoin
source code but you don't have any
miners supporting your altcoin so
something like a
aetherium classic rice solves that
problem if everybody runs on the same
block chain so wouldn't you agree that
the future is probably going to belong
to general 



**Robert:**
Dennis



**Christian Seberino:**
 blockchain systems 



**Robert:**
I
absolutely agree with you there the
question is which one right um yeah and
any two feet of course but realistically
speaking I



**Carlo Vicari:**
 I have in case you wanted to
know the answer I actually do have the
answer and you know that the answer is
yes the answer is e.t.c and and 



**Robert:**
I think
I think that I think that what a lot of
crypto people forget is that right I
mean I think I think the whole you know
sort of block chaining college
environment right and a TTC and Bitcoin
of stuff like this that's challenging
some very established powerful interests
right 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah in this area is those




**Robert:**
interests are not going to relinquish
control without a fight um now you know
in sort of the identity sort of Bitcoin
liberal liberal lists might say well who
cares they can't control it well no they
can't but I mean let's let's take a
really extreme look right um okay you
can't control it but you get a five year
jail sentence for paying in Bitcoin
right um so I remember saying that's
going to happen and I really hope it
doesn't but all I'm saying is you know
the sort of interests that are being
challenged by this technology are well
entrenched well connected and and you
know they're not going to give up
without a fight so so we have some
interesting interesting times on it



**Carlo Vicari:**
 I
think so weird it really is all right so
we talked about crypto past present and
future
now to answer some more
to some more normal normal conversation
so and what I shout out to my older
sister Cheryl for this one she always
wants me to fast this for the audience
to get to know the people there on the
show what's up what books are you
reading any shows you're watching or you
just encode developing 24/7



**Robert:**
um well mostly at for the past year or
to vote so so but but people may not
know it but people probably don't know
is I own the company and before
everybody thinks you know I'm like the
second Microsoft I'm not it's a
one-person company but um I you know so
I have I have customer projects to do
which I've sort of shuff to decide for
now and sort of ignored but eventually I
have to do some because otherwise the
tax office is going to say your revenue
is dangerously low and we don't think
your company anymore so um so I'm really
busy with you know sort of for the past
couple of months it's really been sort
of Janis and everything around that so
but what am I reading um I like to read
arm basically in my in my sauce so you
know generous spare time um I like to
read either um sort of science fiction
stuff or uh Sofia and I enjoy history
and political science and stuff like
that so 




**Carlo Vicari:**
that's read are already weird
enough I agree 




**Robert:**
yeah and I like I mean
basically any a weird story that you can
you know you you can think of has
probably been done by humanity so 




**Carlo Vicari:**
pretty
much um shows note no time for shows I'm
guessing right not not really me they're
taking appeal i 




**Robert:**
I haven't watched TV in
quite a while I enjoy I enjoy so few
notes but to get development done I put
on my headphones put a music in code
basically it does 





**Carlo Vicari:**
yes I figure I told
her that this is the answer I'm gonna
get from pretty much everyone I have in
my show but she doesn't want to listen
so I got a I love her sorry 




**Robert:**
I mean I you
know I like I actually sometimes when
I'm gonna have enough time free ie
you know sort of downloads and stuff and
binge watch it so I enjoy you know stuff
like house of cards
stuff like that I don't I don't enjoy
sort of the sort of silly sitcoms
anymore so 




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah my my one my one show is
Game of Thrones that's it
when fest finish Jameson's






**Robert:**
 yeah that's
about Breaking Bad Breaking Bad was cool
um and stuff like that but





**Carlo Vicari:**
 I wouldn't
read a lot of I did the same thing
pretty much with Breaking Bad I didn't
really follow it all and then I did the
had a day binge watch you know three
three seasons to catch up right





**Robert:**
 yeah I
mean during the regular day I mean I you
know I have a family of a daughter
that's a four and a half years old
so between juggling all adapt TV time is
close to zero
yep




**Christian Seberino:**
 I got a man um Robert did we I just
want to make sure did we cover
everything did you say everything you
wanted to say about etc' bets and the
Janus team 







**Robert:**
one well I mean Ethan okay um
so so to summarize I mean etc' bets is
basically as Buuren put it our
icebreaker to the e.t.c community in the
sense that you know the invested some
some some development time and some
resources to bring you know what I think
is is generally a well done you know
site and project and arm and sort of
introduce ourselves to the EGC people um
you know we hope that people are gonna
you know like the site and use it in our
in all honesty do we think we're gonna
make a ton of money of it no but that's
not really the point the point is to to
sort of you know sort of get on a good
working relationship with the e.t.c
people establish trust and you know sort
of have a base from which we can forward
and you know help each other grow you
know grow businesses around et Cie grow
et Cie as a you know as a as a coin and
yeah you know sort of he'll help the
entire projects face basically and in
terms of Janus well you know where we've
done some initial things we've you know
we've delivered on some initial promises
and we're working hard on delivering on
on the rest right
um and like I said before I cannot
promise success I wish I could but I can
promise you that we'll give it our
utmost best to make it a success and now
the one thing the one thing I need to
say about Janice is this um we haven't
you know I'm from the beginning we've
said this we haven't you know we didn't
pick one thing to do we said we're gonna
do this and that's it no we've picked a
number of things and the reason is
simply statistics right um
because at the end of the day but if a
product you know catches on or not it's
really hard to to predict right
sometimes the weirder things catch on
and sometimes things that everybody
thinks are great don't catch on um so
we're intentionally targeting a number
of different areas right and in you know
with the understanding that not all of
them are going to be a success but you
know if if one or two are a reasonable
success you know and reasonable being
getting some sort of market traction in
mainstream space then that's going to
make all of our investors very happy
including ourselves
um and that's that's really all it takes
right and if in the course of doing that
you could use three or four projects
which are not the success we hope for so
be it but you know if long as the end
results is positive for everyone
involved that's that's the basic goal



**Carlo Vicari:**
good yeah I think you guys are really
doing a great job of you know building a
trust within the community with this
project and you know we're looking
forward to everything you guys have um
so is there anything else you'd like for
us to touch upon or I think we pretty
much covered all the bases



**Robert:**
I I think so um I don't have anything
right now I'll be I'll just say thank
you for for having me as they're having
us and you know in the future if you
launch something interested Oh something
interesting I'll be very happy to return
and uh you know talk about that and give
you some some updated insights to what
you've been up to



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah absolutely I really appreciate the
time you took to come on the show and
tell everybody about UTC Beth and Janice
team and just talk about tech and crypto
in general
uh so again I'd like to thank I H K for
making this all possible I'd like to
thank the e TC dev team for keeping
everything going and the growth date
team from IO HK for working on the new
Scala client also I'd like to thank
everyone from the e TC community and
it's been a great you know great crazy
couple of months we've got going here
so thank you for coming on with us Rob
and Christian thanks again and everybody
who's listening up there we appreciate
you tuning in and we're gonna have
another show next Friday take care


**Robert:**
excellent thank you guys 


**Christian Seberino:**
but
if you are passionate about anything
related to etherium plastic and you have
something to say we'd love to discuss
that with you on show we're always
looking for interesting guests
