# Let's Talk ETC: Conversation With Snaproll.
**Carlo Vicari:**
you
hi everyone and thank you for tuning in
you're listening to episode 6 of let's
talk ET cie i'm your host karlovy along
with my co-host dr. christian see
burrito I want to thank ETC community
for another great week for those of you
watching on YouTube this week's etc'
newsletter will be in the description
below um we didn't have an episode last
week because I had the chance to attend
the monetary policy meet up in London
which was awesome and I'd really like to
thank Charles and I ohk forgive me the
opportunity to go out there also special
thanks to our panelists flicks snap roll
avatar and also Eversheds who hosted the
event I tried to live stream allows out
there but it didn't go so well um but
thankfully avatar had a professional
team out there to film the event and
they're putting some things together
right now so that should be released
pretty soon for anybody who's interested
in kind of seeing what happened at that
event since the last show we had the
official introduction of the growth
league team for those of you who don't
know the growth league team is a new
team of seven guns that I ohk has
committed to building a scholar client
for et Cie so that's pretty cool um the
monetary policy proposal by snap-roll is
still in there in the newsletter for
anybody who wants to check that out and
a couple other things I wanted to let
everyone know about number one please
check out ET SI today we'll have that
link in the description as well it's a
like a online newspaper that's just
really nice to read and it's got a lot
of et Cie info ET SI news stories and
also also like general blockchain
stories in there so it's really good I
really recommend it to everyone that I
speak to lately there's also an
instructional video series on mining
that's been released by e pool so
anybody interested in mining that's just
starting out or even if you're an
experienced miner check it out there's
also a few articles in there including
another article from dr. submarine oh
this one being about setting up here on
ET SI note so yeah you know pretty cool
stuff especially the london meet up and
the new team joining the project grown
deep team just another reminder um is
anyone listening everyone I'm everything
I mentioned is in the newsletter which
will be in the description
on youtube so i'm sure many of you
listening out there have heard about the
monetary policy proposal which was kind
of what the entire london meetup was
about although it covered a lot of what
has happened thus far like since this is
the start of Nerium classic and
everything that's been going on but
really most of that meetup was kind of
based around the monetary policy
proposal so we have awesome guest
tonight with us he's wicked smart funny
nice guy too and we got a chance to hang
out a bit in London which was awesome
the creator of the monetary policy
proposal that everyone's we're talking
about Matt's natural maser how are you
Matt what's going on thanks for coming
on 



**Matt:**
hey evening gentlemen thank you for
having me 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah we're good um so uh


**Matt:**
 are
you from Boston 


**Carlo Vicari:**
no no


**Matt:**
 I thought you were
New York



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah New York right right okay
Wicked's uh quick it's totally awesome
oh you know what I think I think we can
wrap up the wicked rubs off on me cuz uh
um I could live in Vermont for a few
years and Boston in Vermont next makes
quite a bit you know that's true yep hi



**Christian Seberino:**
Pat Burrell I had a question for you
what so if 
I've never had a proposal
that led to an international conference
and people are flying out to discuss my
proposal how did how did that make you
feel well 



**Matt:**
you're giving me way too much
credit that's a look there was just a
need and and I wanted to fill it you
know I just this was something that's
been talked about i think since I mean
time frame we had right we had the was a
the die hard I called a birdie but we
had that kind of diehard document going
around a little bit of of a Minimum
Viable protocol and things we needed to
look into and monetary policy was one of
those things right so I am an absolute
spreadsheet and slide jockey like that's
kind of my life for the most part I know
just enough Python to break anything I
touch so I'm not going to be coding up a
whole lot but I know that there's gonna
be a lot of analysis that can go
on with monetary policy you know I be
right leave an ET c at the time hated
everything that was going on wanted
become a part of it i just jumped right
in so but i know i don't have to avatar
put it all on and he was awesome like
it's unbelievable i hope the community
oh nice is that you know he's a huge
asset that was it was amazing to have
big names in Bitcoin there yeah a lot
easy season that was


**Carlo Vicari:**
 pretty pretty cool
um just a whole the whole set up the
fact that it was where it was where it
was and it you know it was set up the
way it was said was it was awesome it
really was awesome especially if you go
to you know like an another meetup it
that's the that's the you know most
professional meetup I've ever been to I
think 


**Matt:**
yeah nice so I suffer for how
small and how young are you know our
little community is oh yeah it's it's
it's over the top it was great 


**Carlo Vicari:**
it was
wild and really I really want to see the
meteor that you know the filming of the
event that that should be coming out
soon 




**Matt:**
so high def because I think I was
sweating on stage and it's not it's in
4k you'll die see it



**Carlo Vicari:**
 so on it's
something that a lot of the people in
community been asking about and stuff
they just kind of want to know um you
know kind of your background and how you
know what were you doing before
blockchain and kind of just how you fell
down the rabbit hole ache like most
people do 


**Matt:**
sure how deep you want me to
go link 


**Carlo Vicari:**
oh great or whatever like to
hear


**Matt:**
 okay so it's all you I guess I
guess I could do the whole college thing
since we're relatively I think cryptos
kind of a young space I mean it's older
for tech but it's still a young space so


**Carlo Vicari:**
definitely


**Matt:**
 I went to college initially
we compile it and I was in the aviation
and by my software I like I just went
all-in right I just yeah devoured it so
that by my sophomore year I was actually
a flight instructor and I started
teaching Wow is going to school so
obviously I'm not doing the flying
program anymore I'm gonna go study
something else right over time you know
teaching and all that it was really cool
getting licenses
you know for glider or you know
multi-engine all is right there was a
defined goal there and then after all
that got done there wasn't really
defined goal and you keep flying to get
hired so I was kind of looking for
something else to quench that thirst and
what was that so was there something no


**Carlo Vicari:**
no sorry that was okay I had some
feedback sorry 


**Matt:**
okay no worries so um
yeah so I I just lined up with an
opportunity to join a really small
start-up out in Oregon doing unmanned
aircraft that was in like 06 Wow so I
want up just taking the chance you know
here's the road that I know I know the
path that looks beautiful being a pilot
and then I just went off to the do this
wacky thing pretty well it turned out
really well so there's me it almost
doubled growth every year I was there
got bought by bone what now after i got




**Carlo Vicari:**
asked what was what was this unmanned
pilot thing in reference to I mean that
it is so far beyond you know you know
what I'm saying so what like what was
the what was kind of the growth of it
all that the unmanned pilot project 



**Matt:**
oh
so I wasn't my prized ever site so i was
like i don't know i was like number 40
they're right i think it's at like
twelve hundred people now dude so you're
asking what the plane was is that what
you're asking 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah like what was their
objective cuz i mean i know what the the
drones do know or what their objective
is with the drones at this point time
but i'm just really 



**Matt:**
wow ok so i've been
a market analyst tell me i have no idea
what a non-executive are okay it's ever
mind thank you very till this is word
and all time for newspapers to get
readers 



**Carlo Vicari:**
okayed everybody I guess I
thought I knew but it's probably way
beyond what um what's supposed to be but
I just thought that they're looking into
it you know for amazon and packages and
stuff like that but so a 


**Matt:**
oh god don't
even get me started on amazon and is it
amazon only advertises its drone systems
around thanksgiving black friday and
around Chris 


**Carlo Vicari:**
right so that's that's all
a dark a boy I guess that's as far



**Matt:**
 as I
can tell like I was getting that since
24
there's they're working on it I have a
friend who you know works up there but
when you consider regulations right are
really stringent on this stuff I mean
you guys stuff in the sky let's just
flying over people's houses and then to
when you consider the business case for
how to get a drone into like a city to
drop off toilet paper at someone's house
that ain't happening so you're going to
have to go into the rural areas and
what's that right sighs it's not that's
jag so then why would you put all of
this money into a robotic flying machine
in order to go give a farm or something
very funny of them for a hundred miles




**Carlo Vicari:**
ok I'm back with you now I have no idea
what they're doing so it's all right 



**Christian Seberino:**
I
Predator drones then



**Matt:**
 so yeah so what
mine was a defense it was defensive is
what it was 





**Carlo Vicari:**
ok that was kind of what I
was trying to write 



**Matt:**
so is your used for
there wasn't any weapons or there was
intelligence surveillance and
reconnaissance so is our tell cake it
was a small 40-pound aircraft that you
know stayed in the air for about 24
hours at a time so this is a lot like
Afghanistan that right all those guys



**Carlo Vicari:**
mmm okay so yeah sorry I yeah I derailed
the convo there okay so you got into the
defense and drones and stuff keep going



**Matt:**
sir dude that is my wheelhouse okay you
bring me into the into this AK drone
space I'll talk your ear off so i'll try
to lay off of that but uh I but yes I
was there since about oh six boeing buck
company like a way to nine and so i
started working a lot more with boeing i
wound up doing strategy MA and doing
stuff with a lot of like the rd guys
you're trying to get funding for their
own internal projects so basically
taking supertech speak spend a lot of
time with those guys and then turning
into like executive speak slides and
everything like that so you know we can
people can have a conversation that are
using completely different languages



**Carlo Vicari:**
right it's like the the the the
translators that people don't know our
translators 


**Matt:**
yeah exactly
so can you tell




**Christian Seberino:**
us what you mean by ma


**Matt:**
 yeah so merchant
mergers and acquisitions 


**Christian Seberino:**
I see okay


**Matt:**
 or
if you're a american psycho be 



**Carlo Vicari:**
I'm
absolutely my burgers and secretions I
swear just read lemon hey



**Matt:**
oh so yeah I didn't have a really nice
bone colored yet business card or
anything like though 


**Carlo Vicari:**
no Jeff did you
like crossword puzzles 


**Matt:**
no I didn't but I
do have to return some videotapes 



**Carlo Vicari:**
I do
have to return some videotapes




**Matt:**
 after
this I wanted to leave early so um
anyways yeah so I got into that and was
doing that for number of years again
2013 2014 2015 it was just pandemonium
everyone's like our commercial stuff is
going to be it's going to be everywhere
the skies are going to be blacked out it
just drones flying all over the place
and I'm just like I don't see the model
I don't know you guys are looking at but
i will tell you guys this 2015 check out
this Bitcoin deal right I kind of looked
into it in 20 I can remember slashed out
in 2011 and I pulled the same crap that
everyone else has done where you ignore
it until you read about it five or six
times and then maybe like a price jump
happens and you really look into it and
then when you look into it your hair
blows back like you're in an f15 going
Mach 2 and then the the the dome just
blows off randomly and you've just got
all this air right in front your face
and just set you back oh my god what am
I looking at type thing yeah very much
so yeah it's funny everyone you know my
background is in drones and I kind of
just abandoned I don't want to say it
bandit it i'm still doing consulting
that's kind of what i'm doing right now
consulting with people who are looking
to use these for particular cases in the
commercial space right so mostly my job
is saying well just put it on a 200-foot
stick and put a gimballed camera up
there and you can do exactly what you're
asking to what you're wanting to do with
the drone without the worry that it's
going to go fly off and it only cost
like one fifth of a price alright
anyways yeah so so that's did all that
stuff moved out to Colorado for a girl
don't ever do that never answer 


**Carlo Vicari:**
don't I
don't think what the colorado mar or the
girl part 


**Matt:**
no the colorado part is great
yeah this guy's did it for the girl part
that was so man okay great it's great
for six months but yeah right 



**Carlo Vicari:**
so that's
kind of where as the Colorado part
balance out the girl part like the
Colorado being the good decision and the
girl being the bad decision you mix them
both together and you get an ok decision


**Matt:**
Colorado is pretty good keep in mind
that was up in Oregon I was near
Portland that's probably the weirdest
place in the country in the u.s. that
exists so what people talk about hippies
out in boulder it's nothing compared to
like I'm almost bored by those hippies
compared to just the insanity that
exists in the city and around the city
of Portland 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah so I I went there a few
times when I was like what was I like 13
14 15 me if you know something is
actually out of the norm in the adult
world when you're 13 it must be weird
place 


**Matt:**
so the thing is is if you're if
you're there by the time you're 30 you
can't leave you'd be like because the
reality is not exactly what you've grown
up around and you don't think it's
almost like being in jail for 50 years
where you come out you're like red was
here from yeah it's like an institution
man yeah you can't do guys you can't
literally get aid for sitting outside
and playing a guitar and some was not
going to give you a sandwich like at the
restaurant but just some random bard is
rolling around looking for food they
just go into restaurants and somehow
they play to eat now it's just it's
there's some wacky stuff I don't know
but the reality is this is not the same
anywhere else in the world 



**Christian Seberino:**
so so did you
make money investing in Bitcoin or what
was your interest or how did you pursue
that interest 



**Matt:**
so I said it at the during
my presentation I made the point that so
I you know like I said slashdot 2011 I
totally right remember that ignored it
2013 came around pretty interesting one
of my software developer friends you
know he works on some of the systems
that we were working on he was using
Bitcoin like know is that things still
real is that what's going on oh my god
come check it out ok Jesus all right
let's go look right and then we'll do
dungeons and dragons later all right so
so yeah I looked at it then got into it
just playing around with it a little bit
not go
too crazy and then you had that spike
that happened in November and was just
like oh this kid this guy i've seen
these charts before this isn't good so
you know played around with that but but
spent a lot of time I think on Draya
said something where he spent like three
months just obsessing over on dry cell
dancing as he spent like three months
obsessing over it when he first learned
it I have a hard time believing that
most people haven't gone through that i
right so i saw i went through that for
like a month where I was like that's it
i'm just i'm not getting any sleep it
was it was harsh times so so that was
interesting and then so 2014 your scam
city right and i'm really interested in
this stuff and I want to start playing
around with it but I don't know what's
real and what's fake anymore so it's
kind of a just spray and prairie type
deal we're just still a little bit into
a couple things see what happens right
no bitcoin looks it's legit but there's
all this other talk going on other place
so you know throw a bitcoin into this
weird wacky thing with its on Bitcoin
talk with some people talking about it
two thousand eath whatever this stuff is
for a bit coin ring okay fine for this
throw one out there I see what happens
then you know that you throw money into
something you tend to learn about it a
lot more that was actually my thinking
on some of these things so so that's
kind of how i got into is just a whim
spray and pray let's see what's going on
and then look into it after you throw
the money into it seemed real awesome


**Carlo Vicari:**
 as
there is as a result of having a steak
you end up learning a ton 


**Matt:**
right it's
paying for your education 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah right or
or sometimes getting paid for your
education 



**Matt:**
yeah jentezen yeah one in ten
thousand times that that happens 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yes
correct yeah



**Christian Seberino:**
 and so how did you then
make the leap from Bitcoin to theoria
man in ethereal classic



**Matt:**
 so like I said
the etherium thing was interesting to me
after i had just you know thrown a coin
in there for the heck of it right just
to just to interest me to become more
interested in to it and so you get into
it you start looking it's okay there's
some interesting stuff here this is they
got some this is low-level programming
capabilities here right so i always you
it as kind of bitcoins kind of like a
spreadsheet where you can do basic
arithmetic as well as hand input stuff
it seemed to me how I
kind of explain it as theriyum is sort
like a spreadsheet but with you do your
formulas right he did at you can do your
your some ifs and your vlookups and all
you know all that your index match all
that source right adds a little bit more
capability to that spreadsheet and so
okay this looks interesting to stick
with it and then kind of ignored it for
the most part of 2015 2016 start getting
you know looking at it more and then
that really let doubt that Dow thing
happened and people started saying fork
what are you talking about are you
kidding me so I didn't have any part of
the Dow that advertising was completely
insane I don't know how people through
money into that thing looking at that
advertising I thought that was strange
do so but yeah when they uh I thought
classic wouldn't survive right i just it
just seemed like it was just
overpowering the pr political propaganda
machine has just over run this thing by
the way I'm getting out of e I'm getting
out of anything associated with this and
then you see like these guys playing
around with Severian classic things okay
whatever I mean I love the effort guys
but you're up against a huge wall so
money and in tonight's what 



**Christian Seberino:**
I hear you
saying is is the the the fort it area
was kind of like the Hillary Clinton
which everything that could possibly
lose 


**Matt:**
yeah but but but classic was like
the Jeb Bush right didn't forget it like
you just know you're not getting
anywhere like the Rubio or something
you're like it that's how I initially
looked at three days in you start going
on Bitcoin talk and you see you know a
whole bunch of people talking about it
and then you see people on the reddit
you're like I'm sitting there going
alright you know what I'm in I want it
let's let's do this yeah there's no
possible there's no business case for
East 



**Carlo Vicari:**
you know did lady this head look it
looks bleak when it went from I remember
it opened and when it first opened in
Colonials I was like oh man it's
happening and then it went from like 95
cents to 35 cents instant ain't like
really fast as
okay maybe this is not happening right
but then it happened was



**Matt:**
 I didn't have
anything I think that was a Saturday
night so at the risk of letting everyone
know that I wasn't doing anything on the
Saturday go for ya right so there's my
interesting life we're watching hey
she's interested yeah so uh so yeah I
was sitting there looking i was just
kind on the reddit checking it out and
all of a sudden someone announces
somewhere hey it's on Polonia x okay wow
this is what the heck is going on this
is insanity and obviously we know the
next five days the next week was just
crazy yeah right so I so one of the
things I say is and then you know
leading up the hold-down thing was just
there's so much drama it's just crazy
that like blockchain is nuts when you
come from my background where its
aerospace and everything is kept theirs
processes all over the place for
everything yeah there's regulation all
over the place for everything and you
come to this wild-west it's like man I
came for the technology but I stop
staying for the drama it is so fed you
can pour it on your pancakes in it is
unbelievable the drama in the space



**Carlo Vicari:**
 I
remember uh I remember when I was at
coin agenda and there was someone that
was from like a standard like stock
investment plate Blake's face and they
just couldn't leave like the volatility
that people deal with like legs like a
down since a on seven percent day is
like a sideways movement that's 



**Matt:**
yeah
it's nothing that's boys seven percent
snow that's an expectation yeah right
movement of seven percent that's an
expectation



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah like and I was it was
just funny seeing them I kind of start
to to get into it it's a just funny I



**Christian Seberino:**
don't know that one thing that was
speaking of funny stories one thing I
read was suds that was a good Samaritan
I was trying to send a message to
metallic who apparently if i remember
correctly had was doing the demo
somewhere he just casually moved almost
a million dollars working oh yeah it was
real somebody say wait wait hold on guys
let's remember that the stuff has
monetary value and people in the real
world will be nasty things to a
take money something yeah that was that
was I think 



**Carlo Vicari:**
that was confirmed real as
well oh man yeah that was pretty wild um
by the way did either of you guys ever
get a chance to read before the fork
happened there was a post on the
etherium credit and I think it was
titled two chains and this guy laid it
all down perfectly exactly from like a
game theory analysis whatever you want
to call it exactly how everything would
go down and how there would be two
chains if you guys haven't read it up
I'll send it to you after after the show



**Matt:**
it's so how long / how long a period of
time though 


**Carlo Vicari:**
no he just broke it down and
he said you know there's gonna be the
second chain okay and once there's the
second chain there's gonna be some one
mining and getting all the transactions
and then they're gonna gotcha there's
gonna be but you know over the counter
trades and the once there's over the
counter trades some exchange is gonna
want a piece once you have the exchange
and it's just gonna balloon from there
and yeah he laid it all out pretty good
is really good post 



**Matt:**
interesting 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah we
made so I'll see on his prediction 



**Matt:**
ok so
what he ever makes money on the
predictions that's not how this game
works all right this game does exactly
what you're not predicting right what




**Carlo Vicari:**
what what he most likely did was uh he
made that post then made a post
completely contradicting it and then
delete a fat one uh well no I I don't
know so it's okay so so you're on the so
e.t.c starts to happen you get involved
okay keep going sorry we derailed 



**Matt:**
yeah
so I I saw there's a bunch of stuff
going on and all it occurred to me was
okay cool more chaos I love this this is
so much fun so it was more along the
lines of I don't believe that there is
any mastermind behind this I think this
is a straight-up community effort I'm
going to act accordingly so I just
started just started doing stuff right I
just all right entrepreneurial Wild West
here's some opportunities to stuff this
is this is really fun I guess I started
out a sort of fun now for the first day
or two
is nobody knew this thing was gonna take
off the way it was I don't think all
right I just I'm trying to figure out
how to describe the shuffle it's just
looking for stuff to do to help out the
network and then here's my skill set
let's try to find a try to find
something to help out with given the
skill set and then just jumping in once
you find something 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah one hundred
percent right just kind of you you know
the snowball starts the role and you
start to do this that and the other
thing you're doing one thing then you
end up doing two then you end up doing
for sure um



**Matt:**
 yeah well so it was great
like yeah once you do start the snowball
it's a very good very good example um
cuz yeah that's I guess kind of how it
happened i didn't expect to be doing any
of the stuff that I'm doing here I'm
just I'm just trying to truck forward
and doing trying to try to help out et
si 



**Carlo Vicari:**
I know you stayed for the drama you
end up in London giving a proposal in
front of like it in the one of the
city-state of London or whatever it's
called right a city in every sense too




**Matt:**
it's not a city it's not a city stable
is definitely not ready within the city
it's got his own like yams and stuff



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah it's not the city-state it's called
the City of London and it has the Lord
governor mayor of La Nina some really
british sounding title now Lord narrow




**Christian Seberino:**
so snap roll at a question for you is so
I course appreciate your your proposal
but did you just you have an economics
mind or how did you come to to think
that about the subject that you proposed




**Matt:**
yeah so it's kind of a hobby one of mine
understanding economics I guess when I
started doing work full time out of
college I just worked all the time I
mean that's I had a pillow underneath my
desk so after a couple months of that I
basically SAT there and go what is this
on doing and what like what am i chasing
after it turns out this little piece of
paper like what what am i what is this
thing right so just as a hobby I started
reading into money
doing economics that sort of stuff
reading their economics just I guess
knowledge over time just builds on
itself and you kind understand what's
going on and then you know you see you
read some of the forum posts from like
back in the day 2010 on bitcointalk you
guys talk about the economics of Bitcoin
people worrying about oh it's only got a
cap it'll be deflationary no here's why
and then they'll pass some links to
Austrian economics cool thought he click
on those and you read it so you just you
just accumulate this knowledge on this
sort of thing right by being around it
so know my background I I'm not an
economic to meet you at all so but it's
funny figuring out this information and
figuring out how to apply this
information I have a number of years of
kind of doing that with my background in
aerospace and drums and we had
destructive business models there that's
why I was so successful the company that
I was working for so just having mentors
there that taught me how to think here's
destructive ways to think there's ways
to think about just everyday things just
slightly differently than what you may
have been taught 


**Christian Seberino:**
and so somehow you got
the bee in your bonnet that you wanted
to you thought the cap was a good idea
you thought that the inflationary
current model was she should be
correcting it could be improved and so
somehow that idea just got in your head
and you wanted to help out


**Matt:**
 well so the
reality is that eath had this plan to
have some sort of cap I think since the
beginning right I don't know what the
number is it could be a hundred million
it could be something like that so when
you see something that just goes on
forever it's really tough to sit there
and go how do you boot strap this thing
right a price is just going to stay down
because there's just all these coins
coming out sure we can have more utility
but that that's going to be tough when
people are sitting there looking for the
security to put their utility on so the
the reduced rate of what bitcoin has is
just an extremely good model for doing
that sort of thing you know reading the
speculators early on who are just
throwing money at
at something that's really high risk




**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah so so it's a fertile you know it
provides the fertile ground to get the
ball rolling at least you know 



**Matt:**
right so
I don't know if a better model than that
I don't have a better model than the
depreciating inflation over time that
that can do what we're looking to do and
what needs to be done to bootstrap a
cryptocurrency 



**Christian Seberino:**
okay so but is just the
play devil's advocate so the the flip
side let me see if i could think so the
in the long term because it's the Flay
shin airy you're rewarding the people
that took the risk early on but
hypothetically could that discourage new
people way down the line from getting
involved if the you see what I'm saying
cuz it 


**Matt:**
sure absolutely know it and
you're right it could so that's that's a
big issue that i was talking to people
about you know months ago we're talking
about you know burns he loves to have
the inflation thing but I yell it burns
but I love burns because we don't panic
burns I probably want to have come to
some of the conclusions that I've come
to write so they see how the back rather
than pushing all this inflation


**Christian Seberino**:
 okay
well you elaborate that's interesting so
yeah you so prove you evolved 



**Matt:**
so let's
look at it this way let me I'm thinking
on the fly here so bear with me but to
your point will it drive future users
and speculators away who might be trying
to find like a store value for this
thing potentially yes okay now does it
increase or decrease if you shove more
supply closer to now closer to the start
and spreading it out over time okay that
that so if people are looking at a
currency and they see the bitcoins model
and then they see another model which
instead of fifty percent reduction every
four years it's 72 million pre mine and
then it's going to max it a hundred
right where is the likely long term view
where the people who come in late where
do they think the opportunity still lies
and I'd argue that it
something like a bitcoin model which
still has an inflationary you know that
still has production over the long term
so the the the total number of tokens
hasn't been super centralized by people
who got in their extremely early that
make sense right right cell so if you
were going to do Bitcoin model in
one-tenth the time I think that would
drive a lot of people away from
investing in the currency or the crypto
I don't know if I want to call him
currencies you know on the token let's
see let's try to figure out what I was
just saying if you push bitcoins model
10 times sooner right people who didn't
hear about it soon enough may be
skeptical of investing in it because of
that centralization of the token
ownership that make sense 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah yeah
especially with yeah I was gonna say um
and then the the double whammy with that
is the centralization and the move to
proof of stake as well 


**Matt:**
sure yeah we're
money talks 
right whoever's got them




**Carlo Vicari:**
exactly control so you could you can I
was going to say you could maybe make
some sort of you know argument that oh
if it's centralized and then you they
stay proof of work eventually the funds
get dispersed and stuff like that but
when you're doing the double whammy of
the huge pre mine and a 100 million calf
with 72 million gone plus proof of stake
it's like you know one-two-three punch
knockout right potential 



**Matt:**
so Christian to
your point just a little bit further so
the question is is is where is the right
what is fair right what is the right
distribution Dallas and we can have you
can have income with a million different
models and you're always going to find
someone or a group or a lot of people
who will be for it or against it for
whatever reason because they might see
it as unfair what I do know is that
bitcoin is well known by anybody that's
in the crypto space they know exactly
what the distribution rate is and nobody
really has a problem with it so that's
why I looked a ttc and I said look we
can avoid all of these conversations all
these arguments all these people in the
three

or now claiming that oh this is a scam
they put too many coins too soon or oh
it's too late like they're not doing it
fast enough look here's the model that
works mm-hmm let's try to to mirror this
as much as we can



**Christian Seberino:**
 sure I mean that's a
good argument there's there's evidence
for the Bitcoin model where is there's
not evidence for or too much evidence
for other types of right I've urging
miles sure 


**Matt:**
exactly 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I think that's a
pretty pragmatic approach for sure



**Matt:**
 oh
that's why yeah we can come up with all
the theory in the world but it it's ten
times more valuable if you can find
something in practice that works and
just kind of copy that 



**Christian Seberino:**
yeah and it also
helps making the case you say well look
here's Bitcoin and it's working great
okay what's what's your argument for for
your side and then they write what can I
say that's 



**Matt:**
right well so so the other
point is I look at we kind of want to
boot the strip bootstrap the system now
right in the short term so the other
thing to this point is that imagine if
we did something a lot sooner where we
just did a hundred million and it stops
next year right it's all done whoever's
in now so I would argue that over the
next three years you'd have more optimum
so if I'm looking for optimum total
investment and so I think if you can do
the right monetary policy where
everybody can sort of agree that it's
not bad it's not you know they can't
cope with too many arguments one way or
the other deal get optimum investment
and so that model will actually produce
more investment in the short term then
another model that's strictly going
after rewarding people short term so i
would argue that something like a
bitcoin model which anyone's understands
it's easy to understand gets recognized
as the fair model mm-hmm i think there
will be more investment by people on the
outside looking in because they
recognize it as opposed to a model which
is specifically designed to try to jack
up early investment right pushing
everything to like a hundred million
within the next six months yeah okay cuz
they're going to sit there go scam I'm
not touching it I don't know who owns
this stuff I can't play a big
harden it I can't ride this thing okay
so so my so the argument is that the
model that in ec IP 1017 is that this is
going to help with optimal investment
which will help on which will be better
than almost any other model no matter
the time frame right was latter mid term
or short term what's 


**Carlo Vicari:**
what's better for
the network is not small pie now it's
what it's just a bigger pie in general




**Matt:**
right well even if you got try to get
your your your share of the pie right
sample the argument that people have
been given me is you know I they want to
increase the share the pie they won't
have as much as possible right now so I
argue that when you and here's some
weird strategy theory but you have a pie
of total value of x or whatever right so
if you have a share of like ten percent
of that most people what they do this is
kind of life in general is that they try
to double that share which I go to ten
percent to twenty percent when the
reality is is that they would have more
total pie if they worked on putting
their efforts towards doubling the size
of the pie mmm so double the degrees is
far less than x squared okay so that's
so that's what I'm looking at here is
how can we expand this pie to
incorporate as many people as possible
so the pie expands fresh Air's expand
the pine we're all better off the
network is is the important



**Carlo Vicari:**
 thing not
not the exactly you know too and I think
I think we've seen like a ton of
interest especially in China and stuff
you know the trading volumes are always
massive over there um and they're just
they're pretty interested in what's
going on with ET cie um pretty much you
know since not since I don't know about
since the start but pretty early on
China's been really interested in what's
going on and actually um it looks like
there's going to be another you know big
meet up or a big conference over there
in mid-january no details exactly on
that yet but yeah it looks like that's
shaping up are you heading up the
efforts on that a taller uh yeah yeah
I'm working on that with some people
nothing's you know
set stone or anything like that but as
soon as I have details I'm gonna be you
know getting them out to everybody and
letting everybody know so that's pretty
awesome 


**Christian Seberino:**
question that's before before we
end our show I wanted to make sure that
to ask you this is there some what's
like the most common misunderstanding or
issue that you that people meet they
need you to clarify or that what would
you what would you like your your
message to what do you want to get out
for the show the biggest kind of thing
you could help Shelby



**Matt:**
 um let me try to
pull up my computer here and I was going
to look at my slides and see what some
of the arguments are you can kind of
look at the slides I threw them on our
slack channel i can upload them again
but there's a there's a few arguments
that were interesting there one was have
a lower ET c amount so i think the ec IP
proposal it's between 205 and 215
million given uncle rates over time I
think it'll wind up closer to 10 than
anything but anyway that basically the
bounds will be somewhere between 200 and
210 I figure by five block five million
so um



**Christian Seberino:**
 so there wasn't a question that
kept coming up at the London meeting or
that there wasn't any massive source of
confusion that comes tomorrow I'm trying
to think of one well there


**Carlo Vicari:**
 was some
there was um there's a someone named I
forgot his last name but his name's Jess
is right and he brought up uh you know
he was he was pretty respectful he had
questions um there was uh yeah yeah I
think we try to avoid kind of an echo
chamber mentality that can happen in
other communities so I'm glad you know
avatar gave him the stage to ask his
questions and gave also people you know
myself included a chance to respond and
I think avatar I saw even gave him an
opportunity um post interview for him to
speak his views on but then there was
another thing I think there was a lot of
negativity
on reddit and slack um kind of just
people trying to trying to rip him apart
just for asking some questions 




**Matt:**
so first
let's say his question was that he
wanted innovation right we're sitting
here talking about monetary policy we're
talking about you know splits went up
there and did a pretty good presentation
about what the status is of everything
and some of the stuff he wants to do on
core and some of that stuff so what was
jazz is that what his name was yeah
except so judge says hey you guys are
doing all this stuff I want the
innovation give me the innovation like
eat each he sees nothing well so if you
look in it you talk two splits enough we
see all the work that he's doing thank
God that guy already shaves his head
because he would have lost his hair by
now okay so that's one thing so like in
aviation so aerospace I'm finding a lot
of parallels between this technology and
the stuff that the way we that has been
done in aerospace and that is at least
in aerospace its stability and
reliability or paramount if you don't
have those two things I don't care how
efficient your aircraft is it just does
not matter okay yeah and so eath has
been going through all this crap over
the last four months right and splits is
sitting there working to try to
stabilize this thing and make it useful
you talked to a more you start looking
at the code that he's doing you go man
this is some of the stuff is jumbled
write something like that doesn't this
is not well probably 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yes right I had a I
had a late on and she mentioned she was
likes flicks is a tank yeah I'd love to
have him on by the way but uh that's for
another day but yeah she said like he's
a machine



**Matt:**
 so that's awesome yeah so
thank God you know he's doing his thing
and he's and he's got the right mind set
on that and that's why I think you guys
initially knew that I was pushing for
like a three million block monetary
policy but talking to him seeing the
stuff that was going on yeah what he was
handling it's like I'm not putting this
on top because I do not want this thing
to be you know kinda like yeah rush
exactly or what do people say move fast
break things right right not that sort
of thing have the stability because it's
all a trust issue all right our goal
should be not to not have trust or goes
to be trusted
yes 



**Carlo Vicari:**
also a lot a lot of people I've
spoke with you know anecdotally nothing
you know it's nothing in quotes or
anything like that but a lot of the
investors and stuff that I spoke with it
like listen we understand you know
wanting to get it right and not wanting
to rush it as long as stuff is in
writing and it seems that seems but that
the community is committed to doing x
y&z; on set by such and such date you
know we're okay with that so it's not
like it's not like the investors that
were interested in ET c or like okay do
it do it next week you got to do it now
you got to do it now um so a lot of them
are here and with ET c because they want
that the opposite of the move fast break
things mentality so they're okay with us
you know doing things diligently and you
know methodically



**Matt:**
 so so i argue that the
Jazz will see the innovation once the
security rises up sufficiently and once
the platform is more stabilized because
if I was a developer I would be doing
I'd be I'd be playing around with stuff
right and we're playing on the system
but I wouldn't be doing anything serious
just cuz I don't know what's going on
right yeah maybe we might see some big
stuff and just you know a few months not
I would say you know months three months
I don't know maybe there's people
working on it right now they're just
waiting to just flip the switch right
okay but you can kind of make the case
that goldman sachs is not going to throw
anything on this network right now okay
right not that we want them to but I'm
just saying no one's going to touch it
in at that massive level until the
stability reliability is absolutely
there unquestionable and then until the
hash rate is higher so so what I want to
say to jazz also was he's worried about
the innovational that will let's get the
thing working first you'll probably see
it but but to I wanted to say innovation
what you're seeing that in eath like so
I still have this question outstanding I
have it on my Twitter and service a
pendant but I don't know what the
business case is for even more I don't
know what a business case is for a
transaction reversing decentralized
block chain mm-hmm so distributed ledger
makes way more sense far more efficient
far faster or cheaper to operate just
do that 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah what's uh it's a strain
that was their whole value proposition
that kind of kind of went out the window
there I guess that's why we are where we
are yeah the other thing that I wanted
to point out to jazz but not sure I got
the opportunity or not just because this
even happened inside our own slack
community on you know when people would
be working on say something uh you know
marketing related or someone would be
working on something monetary policy
related I remember even when when we
were talking about this you know a
couple months back you were like oh no
we need to focus on we need to you know
do this that and the other thing for dev
dev dev and like well you know i'm i'm
not dev I don't know how to code so
everyone's going to do with their
inclined to do on an open source project
and that's kind of how a whole bunch of
stuff gets done um so people who are
inclined to work on the economics of the
project will people who are inclined to
develop will develop people who are into
you know getting the word out there
about the project will do that you know
it's not like everyone has to do this
one specific thing one thing at a time
that's just kind of inefficient in
general 




**Matt:**
right and so I think you know
maybe some people want to think well you
know I'll never be known for the work
that I do if I do anything like that
well if you do it good it almost doesn't
matter what you're doing people will
recognize it right so if you can't code
if you can't slave away at a spreadsheet
like me right it finds something and I'm
pretty sure no I'm certain if you do a
good job at it it will be recognized you
will become things as far right like
it's going it will happen so yeah I'm
with you with that one caveat like you
don't guys don't have to code right you
don't have to be awesome at math figure
out some way to add value to the network
and it's it's almost a certainty that
you're rewarded and oh yeah and both
that's I mean that goes for anything in
life really like if you just if you go
all-in it doesn't matter what it is
mm-hmm those at some point get
recognized 


**Christian Seberino:**
so with the exception of this
person that had his
questions have you had a lot of other
push back to the monetary policy to your
proposal 



**Matt:**
not really talk to Roy a lot he
gave me some feedback ok but I put that
feedback in the slides are seeing that
feedback in the slides 


**Christian Seberino:**
now I thunder I'm
a bacon tomato sorry 



**Matt:**
I didn't mean it so
yeah I haven't heard too much crazy and
I've tried to leave the door open for
people to contact me on it but like I
said I haven't really heard too much 



**Christian Seberino:**
ok
now I just wanted to make one comment
i'm a big fan of counting my blessings
and it could have it this could have
played out in a parallel universe a lot
differently that they could have been
you know a really big brawl with
different opinions on the monetary
policy and it's just I'm just glad that
it's not that way that it's it's not
that controversial there's not this big
fight but that that's something on my
mind and that's something other people
are talking about is how to resolve more
contentious issues in the future but so
I'm just glad if this isn't one 



**Matt:**
so if
you look back at the diehard document i
made a point that monetary policy were
probably the most contentious issue that
we have at least in the near term and
that we probably won't be able to get
rid of all of it all the contention but
at least we can mitigate that by
communication by making a solid you know
yeah making the information the case for
it to be to be solid you can't pull any
punches you can't like try to sneak
anything in there right we come up with
the best policy I think and we can
explain it well and people will
understand it see it and be willing to
go with it mm-hmm right but if you try
to start playing games or you're trying
to maybe we can maybe we can sneak in
some extra ether or some extra et Cie
early right people p someone's going to
cry foul yeah we're great right so if
you just try to do the best thing then I
think what would play out and and if you
communicate it well that's like I said
super important to get to those two
things then you can kind of mitigate not
all of it but a good amount 



**Christian Seberino:**
yes and give
people a chance to voice their concerns
and their gripes absolutely it doesn't
blow up into you know the worst case
scenario course would be
it blows up into another Fork yeah yep
yeah i mean 




**Matt:**
so if someone comes up with
a better monetary policy than mine do
you want to go with it I'm fine mm-hmm
right if you guys want to go work for it
go for it because I'm I'm for what's
good for et see my ego is way out of
this mm-hmm okay I did it's not a
personal shot at me if something else
gets adopted that's great i'm all for it
yeah you know




**Carlo Vicari:**
Mary Mary paste everything
is the way to go for sure sure um so go
I was gonna say also you mentioned kind
of your initial rabbit hole trip i guess
was was kind of a lot of people with
austrian economics and you know
libertarian principles and stuff like
that so um I just wanted to kind of ask
you more about that in your ear views as
far as you know cuz I think one of the
major something they brought up i
remember i think it was his name is
aaron or something about the difference
between you know how gold is actually
inflationary because they keep finding
in and stuff like that but hey my thing
is that if you can have a known number
just if businesses always like to have
an investor's like if they can know
something and have it planned out better
they'll take it so sure i just wanted to
know your opinion on that 


**Matt:**
no I i agree
with you i what cryptocurrency bitcoin
all that's what's up what I think it
might be the first thing in mankind you
know in the history of mankind or
history of earth where there is a known
quantity and there is a Down
distribution rate and it is a hundred
percent accurate right right right like
so I think of anything else it's like
that 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah I get what he was saying about
how you know if the inflation numbers
known then that's all that matters but
at the same time if you can improve on
what gold is not just by making it but
you know digital but if you can also
improve on it by knowing the actual
total quantity and giving people another
reference point of certainty why not do
it that's just
kind of my personal feeling 



**Matt:**
sure I mean
if that could happen with gold that'd be
great but they're not the human
condition is the fact that surprises are
always fun but they make bad business
right 


**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah excited I think so oh that's
what cuz we started getting into this at
um what are eating you know dinner that
one night after we walked for ten miles
which is pretty funny 



**Matt:**
that was only 10
miles and so so one of the things is so
splits by the way I met him up on Monday
oh yeah nice monday tuesday and
wednesday he got back to me when he went
back to Russia and he said look we
averaged 24 kilometres a day walking I
said he that he was in like snow boots
and I was in like some marc ecko shoes
so they weren't they neither of these
were walking shoes and we walked I think
that's 15 miles 24 kilometres about 15
miles so that's 45 miles over 32 I think
i lost about three or four pounds just
hanging out with that guy in london so
what uh 



**Carlo Vicari:**
what do you do with the splits
in LA 



**Matt:**
okay you want that story oh yeah
so the great slips is a great guy right
so not only is he really good at what
he's doing there was good at programming
he's good at what I like more about his
ability to program is the fact that he's
very stable hand right he's a stable guy
can think this stuff through and won't
really be influenced by people freaking
out around him yeah and may he can
maintain focus but yeah so I never met
him before he never met me before we're
staying at the same hotel in London you
guys hey I get in 11 I probably can't
check until two let's go get a coffee
okay sounds good so 11 comes around he
calls up my room I come on down I meet
him and then he goes back up to put his
luggage up or whatever it was and I go
man I'm freezing right so i have my
scarf I've got like three shorts on and
I've got my overcoat I'm from Florida
that's where I grew up so so I'm cold
this maybe 25 degrees or something
outside 20 degrees Fahrenheit so
Mexico's man I'm it's so hot here this
is crazy so he's like just walking
around in the sweatshirt it's just like
okay here we go with this day here we go
let's go get some coffee all right so we
walked around towards Big Bend through
Hyde Park Big Ben walk you know just
kind of saw some of the weird sites that
are around the area never got coffee
right so he wonder we want to make a
stop for coffee and wanted to take like
a stop for you know to go buy something
sure his wife will he was there and we
didn't stop for either we did make one
stop going at four hour period right and
this is the most Russian thing ever and
I love this guy so we went and just
stopped randomly at a sporting goods
shop and he went into the adidas section
that's for a jumpsuit and I thought it
was the most beautiful thing I have ever
seen for our walk didn't accomplish any
of our goal but at least he got to go
check out the adidas Webster 


**Carlo Vicari:**
I i was i
was dying than I when you told me that
this is what up what 


**Matt:**
well sorrow thanks
man I'm sorry if I'm making funny oh
yeah baby i love you man we're great 




**Carlo Vicari:**
not
sure when I have a monitor he's gonna
have a snap roll story you know


**Matt:**
 oh boy


**Carlo Vicari:**
oh the other the other thing that we
talked about a little bit at dinner that
I want to ask so another thing that I
guess has molded your mind as far as
like free market you know principles and
Austrian economics and regulation you
kind of dealt with the regulations in
the arrow you know the industry you were
in before and it kind of made you a
little bit jaded as to how these these
regulations actually play out in the
market and what they cause




**Matt:**
 yeah well
they calls monopolies as well cause but
well yeah you get not anything in
particular what are you



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah like um so
if you could kind of talk about some of
the regulations you saw in your previous
industry and the unintended consequences
that they might they caused um I know
you're talking about how they just they
don't even care about the FAA
regulations and 




**Matt:**
oh oh no I don't say
they don't care about them they'd
absolutely care about but the point that
I would write about house regulations
yeah miss monochrome don't mean anything
and it's because I don't know of an
airline dad that meets FAA regulations
for safety I don't know of a single one
I do know that all of them are way above
FAA regulations because no insurance
agency is going to ensure an aircraft
full 300 people if you are not like
pretty awesome at your safety right
right so it's almost like there's just
like these fake walls all over the place
like a formality so kinda its side any
anti-competitive I don't know right so
the FAA the intentions are good right
every regulation has been written in
blood for some reason or another okay
right and by me you know over since like
the 1910s 1900s someone's probably died
and they said okay here's a regulation
but a little walk but but once everyone
saw that that happened to the guy no one
did that again it's almost like the
regulation wasn't necessary


**Carlo Vicari:**
 right right
I mean it it's a they self-regulate in a
sense we know no airliner wants their
plane could go down and lose you know
it's a millions of dollars business



**Matt:**
 well
I mean look at it who's going to be more
interested in the safety of that
aircraft someone who has skin in the
game like an insurance company or
someone who doesn't have a
hundred-million-dollar asset on the line
like yeah fit 


**Carlo Vicari:**
I'm gonna go with the
insurance company 


**Matt:**
right exactly I'm
sorry so yeah there's that and like I
said I know a lot of people have a you
know what I'm a flight instructor I'm
licensed and everything I get it there
are some of the stuff is pretty good but
the vast majority I just I don't really
understand it and it kind of holds back
innovation sure yeah well oh so the
other thing I want to make yeah when I
said monopolies is if you look at any of
the industries that are that are highly
regulated you find monopoly practices
rights of aviation maybe another
commercial aircraft builder in the US
Amy namey five like an Indian boy right
agam you won its Boeing great I can name
you another one but it's not in the US
it's called Airbus hmm right yeah so so
those are the major same with defense so
how many defense companies do we have
like four or five right hey I Boeing
does it Lockheed Martin
um Aquaman now you're getting with her
Alice it's yeah there's there's a few
right I don't know why I'm not
remembering them right now but but yeah
anywhere and the same thing with you
know finance right so there was a bunch
of banks before and they've all kind of
how many investment banks are there in
New York now big big investment banks
yeah we gobbled xa10 something like that
not a 




**Carlo Vicari:**
lot just which is crazy to think
about in such a giant city 



**Matt:**
right so you
I mean you tend to get a lot of
efficiencies that come with that as well
but well I 



**Carlo Vicari:**
I've had this conversation
with you know plenty plenty of people
before when you get into the political
regulation you know the Stanford
standard conversation and I'm like you
know they talk about these laws against
monopolies um which end up usually just
creating art that's right it may end up
creating monopoly right 



**Matt:**
then they have
to create more regulation to stop the
monopoly of the 



**Carlo Vicari:**
right but absent absent
the regulation that creates a monopoly
say there's a business that's an actual
monopoly all it really just means is
that they are doing something way better
than anybody else um is this absent are
you okay i'm seeing a regulation idea
i'm saying absent something that
actually keeps them at a competitive
advantage from anybody else like if it's
a legitimate monopoly it just means you
know that you know how when they try to
break up a company that's actually just
doing something really well 




**Matt:**
yeah but
well so my point is is how long do
monopolies last in purely free market



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah it doesn't it doesn't happen I
think I a cutlass but it's not gonna
last long because it's going to




**Matt:**
 be at
full of your accuracy




**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah it's pretty
much um someone brought up one of the
only ones they can think of and they
said good beers how true that is i'm not
sure but i can think of like the beers
and like heinz ketchup you want to call
that monopoly to that's about it well



**Matt:**
that's cuz I'm not trying hunt right
Heinz has got a great product i'm not
drinking i'm not using hunts ketchup


**Carlo Vicari:**
exactly like Heinz has legitimate
monopoly and they are


**Matt:**
 it does deserve
the money now Heinz is mustard no 



**Carlo Vicari:**
no yes
must not happen they need to get the
hind
you need to get another team for the
Heinz mustard they need to work on it
but yeah they can all catch up market
though yeah they feel like sending him a
Christmas card that's how good their um
so yeah uh Christian what up what else




**Christian Seberino:**
 I
think we pretty much covered it um we
you share did you did it was there
anything else you wanted to share
actually last question that we typically
ask you know most of our most of our
guests so um just a fun you know fun
question you can get on board well no
it's uh some people though don't



**Carlo Vicari:**
actually like this questions 




**Matt:**
they was
like what kind of ice cream topping I
want to be yours 



**Carlo Vicari:**
no no they want to keep
it so they want to keep everything so
realistic and not get into the future I
like to ask and these are these are some
things I like to talk about what do you
see on the horizon for ET c or block
chain in general you can give you know
wild use cases whatever you think
although you're extremely pragmatic so
i'm sure you hate this question because
you hate talking about drones and all
that stuff 


**Matt:**
yeah I don't hate it I don't
hate it I could talk about it forever
it's just you're right right what okay
so the question is is what's a
wild-goose case that i can think of all
this stuff



**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah your 



**Christian Seberino:**
predictions your
predictions for the future oh 


**Matt:**
yeah here
we go uh 


Carlo Vicari:**
what it what is what does block
chain look like in 10 years good luck
and i'll hook it and hook it into your
previous work with uh you know flying
and stuff like that 


**Matt:**
I don't know man
that's a tough one once you reach like I
think maybe the two year two and a half
year mark of being within this space



**Carlo Vicari:**
okay as far as 



**Matt:**
you start to like your
dreams go away you're like oh we can't
create world peace you know like it's
wet way out there 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah okay so so as far
as your imagination goes 


**Matt:**
um four-block
cane in general 



**Carlo Vicari:**
for block chain and tie
it into arrows you know eros piglet 




**Christian Seberino:**
what
it would ache what excites no space like
what what excites you snapper like one
person yeah that's that like it sure



**Matt:**
sure so what it was what excites me is
the fact that that somehow there is a
kind of go to Bitcoin on this one
but what excites me somehow someone
figured out how to make a unique digital
asset it's a unique item right that's
digital that hasn't existed any before
and that's that's amazing and that's
when your imagination can just go crazy
what you know what the potential of this
is what's interesting to me about ET c
is just the fact that you can do some
really low level programming some
interesting stuff I think it's basic I
don't know I don't know you know what
people think in terms of just doing all
this you know taking over stock markets
and everything I don't know how long
that is out that's kind of be on my
horizon I kind of look at the next three
years max so so what I would like to see
what what is interesting to me about
this is kind of simple automations on
what people currently do with Vic one
mm-hmm right so so simple stuff that
people do can can some of those small
processes be be automated do I have an
example clear-cut right now no because I
wasn't expecting this question but in
general that's what interests me about
et Cie 



**Christian Seberino:**
so what I hear you saying i think
is your you you like the idea of making
our lives easier or more efficient in
the short term in different ways more
efficient processes and in the industry
and other things using Bitcoin



**Matt:**
 a little
bit more pragmatic than that but yes I
well okay so in in the crypto space yes
making it easier mostly eliminating even
middle men that are currently in this
face right so whether its buying
something online or or out of some
people i do gambling and stuff i don't
really do any of that but but there's
still middlemen in the space even though
we're trying to completely eliminate
that because people are running their
own websites for their console but can
you eliminate that risk and i think
there is a pretty good use case for for
something like ET cie to remove a lot of
this a lot of that little men mm-hm
right um breast i would say sure so okay
so that is specifically what interests
me how it'll stay out no idea but that's
kind of the
that's kind of the case that I look at
when I look at et si 


**Carlo Vicari:**
okay so I'm taking
it that you're not seeing my use case
for 2 12 unmanned drones dropping off
amazon packages and crashing into each
other and executing a smart contract
that raises their insurance rates on the
HTC net in the year 20xx not i'm going
to you hey 



**Matt:**
I'm I'm pragmatic to maybe a
level where I'm just boring I already
knew that right so so yeah I've got to
remember I've gone through so I used to
be like that to Carlo when I had hope in
life but yeah but keep in mind that late
2013 through 2015 I lived through the
most insane hype cycle I've ever seen in
my life when it came to drones you put
drone in a headland on graph paper and
you'd sell a newspaper right that was
the craziest thing that everybody
thought they were just gonna do all this
stuff and when you you sit back and pull
the emotion out you look at what the use
cases are there are some interesting
niche use cases when I've been kind of
working with Noah lets out in boulder
that's the national oceanic and
atmospheric administration they do
whether stuff so I've been kind of
helping them out with some some
interesting use cases but the same thing
with this it's it's really easy and I I
went through to it maybe 2013-2014 yeah
my mind exploded and I was like the
whole world is going to change you drive
up to Seattle from Portland to hang out
with some people and you look at all
those bag good and you're like they have
no idea what's about to hit upload and
they don't yeah I don't think it's going
to be just this massive rapid uptake
where we have a billion people using
this by next year it's August


**Christian Seberino:**
 you're
consciously optimistic


**Matt:**
 no I'm not even
cautiously optimistic I'm optimistic
uh-huh I'm just not losing my mind to
emotion I would say



**Carlo Vicari:**
 he goes too much he
knows too much 


**Matt:**
I've seen things 



**Carlo Vicari:**
yeah he
seemed leave wait wait wait uh so last
question um this I wanted to ask about
this earlier you mentioned telling
people to get a 200 foot pole instead of
where the camera
on its bit of the drone sure 



**Matt:**
yeah so
there was I was actually talking to a
racetrack owner


**Carlo Vicari:**
 yeah now was that was
that were you being facetious or this
sounds like something you actually said



**Matt:**
no so the point is is that the guy was
like hey what I'd like to do is track
the cars going around the track right
hey guys well I want to take a drone
just put it up in the middle here can
you help me out with that I think that
you know that's that's what I don't have
this drone right here and I go well what
is it that you want to do right well I
want to have a drone to fly up and do
the game no what is it that you want to
do I want and you keep asking this you
drill down you go ok you want to look at
the you know the front three cars as
they go around so your little Jumbotron
thing this wasn't like this was like a
NASCAR like farming league right you
know how baseball's got the farming
league this was kind of an of those and
so you go what is it that you actually
want to do and it's I just want to keep
the camera on the front three cars you
know the front couple cars so that
people can see it you know when they're
on the backstretch right so look at that
you go well as a drone needed is the
drum the best use for what you want and
then you can say no hey you've got
something flying in the air that's scary
enough right you could have gps issues
which causes the thing to fly off
something could happen with the motors
because most of these things are still
using kind of RC components there's
nothing there's no real like crazy
awesome yeah so even even a lot of the
military guys are using RC equipment for
certain things I mean right carbon fiber
and all this stuff but you know a lot of
those like the top service so so when
you look at the cost and you look at the
risk of raising a camera up via flying
you know quad or octocopter or something
you say ok look if you want to ensure
this and I have a plant not have this
thing you know fly into a car something
just put the same gimballed camera heck
here's one that weighs 10 pounds more I
can get you way better resolution and
we'll put it on this telescoping pole in
the middle and it can rotate around
without having to worry about the wires
tangling up because they'll have
flip ring in there


**Carlo Vicari:**
 do you pretty much
oil didn't get a 200-foot pool yeah well
if that if


**Matt:**
 yeah if that's a bit didn't
need to be 200 but yeah so like a
hundred 200 foot pole you could do that
telescopic and have the camera on it the
point is is what is he trying to do sure
right and then we figure out what the
solution is and ninety percent of the
time it's not a drone right certain most
use case that you have for drones right
now are mostly novelty type stuff like
getting a cool picture somewhere right
but for like an industrial use case it's
not quite there yet yeah it'll be there
of course it's just just let you know
what warp drive will be here too but I'm
not gonna invest water


**Carlo Vicari:**
 okay all right
Christian getting anything else



**Christian Seberino:**
 no I'm
good



**Carlo Vicari:**
 alright guys so the pleasure yeah
thanks for joining us tonight everybody
out there listening thank you guys for
listening and I will see you guys next
week all right take your bike
you
